breaking down the invisible wall of informal fallacies inonline discussions.
saumya yashmohini sahaithe ohio state university, usasahai.17@osu.edu.
oana balalauinria, institut polytechnique de paris, franceoana.balalau@inria.fr.
roxana horincarthales research & technology, franceroxana.horincar@thalesgroup.com.
abstract.
people debate on a variety of topics on onlineplatforms such as reddit, or facebook.
de-bates can be lengthy, with users exchanginga wealth of information and opinions.
how-ever, conversations do not always go smoothly,and users sometimes engage in unsound argu-mentation techniques to prove a claim.
thesetechniques are called fallacies.
fallacies arepersuasive arguments that provide insufﬁcientor incorrect evidence to support the claim.
inthis paper, we study the most frequent falla-cies on reddit, and we present them usingthe pragma-dialectical theory of argumenta-tion.
we construct a new annotated dataset offallacies, using user comments containing fal-lacy mentions as noisy labels, and cleaning thedata via crowdsourcing.
finally, we study thetask of classifying fallacies using neural mod-els.
we ﬁnd that generally the models performbetter in the presence of conversational con-text.we have released the data and the codeat github.com/sahaisaumya/informal_fallacies..1.introduction.
argumentation plays a critical part in our lives asit helps us make decisions and reason about theworld around us.
studies (sanders et al., 1994)have shown that learning how to argue increases theability to identify weak arguments and decreasesthe tendency to use verbal aggressiveness.
fallaciesare weak arguments that seem convincing, however,their evidence does not prove or disprove the argu-ment’s conclusion.
fallacies are usually dividedinto formal and informal, where the former canbe easily described using logical representations,while for the latter, an analysis of the content ismore appropriate.
fallacies are prevalent in public.
part of this work was done while the ﬁrst author was an.
intern at inria, france..discourse.
for example, the new york times la-beled the tweets of donald trump between 2015and 2020 and found thousands of insults addressedto his adversaries.
if made in an argument, an in-sult is an ad hominem fallacy: an attack on theopponent rather than on their argument.
in pri-vate conversations, other types of fallacies mightbe more prevalent, for example, appeal to traditionor appeal to nature.
appeal to tradition dismissescalls to improve gender equality by stating that“women have always occupied this place in soci-ety”.
appeal to nature is often used to ignore callsto be inclusive of the lgbtq+ community by stat-ing “gender is binary”.
the underlying premisesof such arguments are “traditions are correct” and“what occurs in nature is good”..creating a dataset of fallacious arguments isdifﬁcult, given that there are over 100 types offallacious arguments (scalambrino, 2018).
therehave been several attempts to create comprehensivedatasets: habernal et al.
(2017) proposed a gamein which players add fallacies in the hope of foul-ing other participants, in habernal et al.
(2018a)ad hominem fallacies are found using a subred-dit’s rule violations, while in da san martino et al.
(2019) fallacies are annotated together with otherpropaganda techniques in news articles.
however,our work is the ﬁrst to propose a viable solutionfor ﬁnding fallacious arguments belonging to manydifferent fallacy types..in this work, we study fallacies in public discus-sions on online forums.
our salient contributionsare: i) we align informal fallacies mentioned onreddit within the pragma-dialectic theory of argu-mentation (van eemeren and grootendorst, 1995);ii) we design a methodology for mining and label-ing easily fallacies in online discussions; iii) weconstruct a large and balanced dataset of fallaciousarguments; iv) ﬁnally, we evaluate several neuralmodels on the task of predicting fallacious argu-.
proceedingsofthe59thannualmeetingoftheassociationforcomputationallinguisticsandthe11thinternationaljointconferenceonnaturallanguageprocessing,pages644–657august1–6,2021.©2021associationforcomputationallinguistics644ments, and we ﬁnd that taking into considerationadditional conversational context is important forthis task..2 background.
2.1 fallacies in argumentation theory.
humans use argumentation when they evaluate thevalidity of new ideas, or they want to solve a dif-ference of opinion.
an argument contains: i) aproposition called claim, conclusion or standpoint,to be validated; ii) the premises called also evi-dence, which are the backing propositions; iii) aninference relation between the evidence and con-clusion that validates or disproves the conclusion.
a fallacy is a ﬂawed argument, where the inferencerelation or the premises are incorrect.
fallacies aregenerally divided into formal and informal falla-cies.
formal fallacies are arguments that can beeasily represented as invalid logical formulas, suchas denying the antecedent, which is a wrong appli-cation of modus tollens.
although many informalfallacies can be also represented as invalid argu-ments, informal fallacies are easier to describe andunderstand without resorting to logical representa-tions (hansen, 2020)..in this work, we follow the pragma dialectictheory of argumentation.
the theory developedby van eemeren and grootendorst (1995) viewsargumentation as a complex speech act.
the dialec-tical aspect is represented by two parties who tryto resolve a difference of opinion by engaging in adiscussion, each party making a move towards res-olution.
the pragmatic aspect describes the movesin the discussion as speech acts, more precisely asthe illocutionary acts introduced by searle (1979).
van eemeren and grootendorst (1995) also devel-oped ten rules which should guide argumentativediscussions.
the goal of the rules is to further theunderstanding of the difference of opinions and tocreate a fruitful discussion.
for example, a rulestates that parties must not prevent each other fromadvancing standpoints or from casting doubt onstandpoints, while a second rule asks that a partymay defend a standpoint only by advancing argu-mentation relating to that standpoint.
an argumentthat prevents the resolution and thus violates oneof the rules is a fallacy.
in our work, we align fre-quent fallacies on reddit with these rules, with thegoal of formalizing their deﬁnitions..another well-known model that considers fal-lacies is the argumentation scheme introduced by.
douglas walton (walton, 2005).
a scheme con-sists of a conclusion, a set of premises, and a setof critical questions.
the critical questions shouldbe answered in order to prove that the premisessupport the conclusion, hence the argument is nota fallacy.
for example, the scheme for an argu-ment from expert opinion (walton, 2005) has thepremises e is an expert in domain d, e assertsthat a is known to be true, a is within d and theconclusion therefore, a may plausibly be taken tobe true.
some critical questions for this schemeare: i) trustworthiness: is e personally reliable asa source?
ii) backup evidence: is e’s assertionbased on evidence?
argumentation schemes havetwo main drawbacks: ﬁrst, for each new fallacy, anew scheme should exist or be deﬁned; and sec-ond, in the context of labeling an existing argument,many of the critical questions might be unanswer-able as none of the parties discussed them..2.2 related work.
an initial effort for creating an extensive dataset offallacies was made in habernal et al.
(2017).
theauthors created a platform for educative games,where players learn how to become better debaters.
new fallacies are added to the platform by play-ers that try to earn points by fouling other partici-pants with invalid arguments.
a follow-up on thiswork (habernal et al., 2018a) mentioned a datasetof only around 300 arguments created via the plat-form, thus showing the need of ﬁnding other meth-ods for creating larger datasets of fallacies..ad hominem fallacies in conversations havebeen addressed in (habernal et al., 2018b).
theauthors used the subreddit changemyview, whichis a forum for civilized discussions, “a place to postan opinion you accept may be ﬂawed, in an effortto understand other perspectives on the issue”.
thedataset of fallacies consists of comments that wereremoved by the moderators as they violated therule of not being rude or hostile, hence committingan ad hominem fallacy..fallacious arguments are often made in the dis-semination of propaganda.
in da san martino et al.
(2019), the authors annotate journal articles with 18propaganda techniques, out of which 12 techniquesare fallacies.
although an important resource inthe study of fallacies, their labelling method anddataset have a few drawbacks.
first, the datasetis highly unbalanced with 6 fallacies having a fairnumber of mentions: name-calling (1294), appeal.
645to fear and prejudice (367), ﬂag-waving (330),causal oversimpliﬁcation (233), appeal to authority(169), black and white fallacy (134), and 6 fallacieshaving less than 100 mentions: whataboutism (76),reductio ad hitlerum (66), red herring (48), band-wagon (17), labeling, obfuscation or intentionalvagueness (17), straw men (15).
second, the taskof ﬁnding the correct label for a span of text from alarge set of labels (18 in their case) is intellectuallycomplex and time-consuming.
our work focuseson collecting and annotating a balanced dataset offallacy mentions while providing a methodologythat can easily scale to a larger number of fallacies.
in our approach, an annotator has to just verify thata comment contains one type of fallacy.
in addition,we target fallacies in online conversations, wherethe style of argumentation is less structured than ina journal article..3 fallacies on reddit.
finding a large sample of fallacious arguments is achallenging task as it assumes going through longconversations, ﬁnding arguments, and then veri-fying if the arguments are sound.
another majorissue, even if we recognize the argument is ﬂawed,is to ﬁnd the exact fallacy that is committed, giventhat more than 100 types of fallacies have beenproposed in the literature (scalambrino, 2018)..our goal is to construct an annotated dataset offallacies using a mixed strategy: i) ﬁrst, as noisylabels, we leverage user comments that mentionthe name of a fallacy, and second, ii) we cleanthis dataset by removing false-positive samples viacrowdsourcing.
our intuition is that a person willmention a fallacy as a reply to another comment tohighlight that the previous comment’s argument isfallacious, as shown in figure 1. this might notalways be the case, as users could discuss falla-cies in general, hence the need to further label thediscussion using crowdsourcing..we use the pushshift reddit api (baumgartneret al., 2020) to retrieve data from reddit.
the apiallows searching comments and submissions bytheir ids or by a set of keywords.
we start bymaking an exhaustive list of fallacies informed bywikipedia.
we chose wikipedia as a resource forcreating the list of fallacies as it is one of the mostwell-known sources of information, hence a red-dit user could peruse it easily to understand whatfallacy was committed in the discussion.
for eachfallacy we ﬁnd all its different designations, for.
figure 1: the redditor user3 is pointing out a fallacy..example, appeal to tradition is also known underits latin name, argumentum ad antiquitatem.
wethen do a keyword search for these fallacy typeson reddit comments, restricting the results to oneyear, may 2019 to may 2020. we retrieve in total105k comments that match at least one fallacy.
forcomparison, in 2019, 1.7 billion comments wereposted on reddit.
while it is very likely that manymore posts contain fallacies, the small number ofmatches highlights the importance of choosing withcare the comments to annotate.
to understand inwhich subreddits people were more likely to men-tion names of fallacies, we compute the top 10 sub-reddits with the highest ratio of matched commentsper number of subscribers, as shown in table 1.the subreddits are broadly divided into subredditson religion, morality, and science, with one sub-reddit dedicated to discussions on fallacies.
thesubreddits’ focus is on debating, which involvescreating, defending, and attacking arguments, there-fore accusing the opponent of committing a fallacymight win you the debate..from the list of most frequently mentioned fal-lacies we retained the top fallacies with more than400 mentions, resulting in 32 fallacy types.
thisshortlist of frequent fallacies is presented in our ap-pendix a, with a deﬁnition, example, and argumen-tation rule violation (according to the pragma di-alectic theory) for each fallacy.
from this shortlistwe do not consider the fallacies that were alreadystudied in habernal et al.
(2018b), as their labeleddataset is also based on reddit comments.
we donot exclude fallacy types annotated in da san mar-tino et al.
(2019), as these are fallacious argumentsin journal articles.
we take random samples of.
646submission title:what is something massively outdated that humanity has yet to upgrade?link: https://www.reddit.com/r/askreddit/comments/b3nwm6/the 5-day work weeki know a lot of people don't like it, but a 9 to 5 office job is a pretty bigstep up from slavery, feudalism and indentured servitude.
though i do agree with studies saying that working for less than 8 hours a day is more productive.fallacy of relative privationare you majoring in psychology?
hahahacomment by user1comment by user2comment by user3comment by user2subreddit.
description.
abortiondebateaskachristianfallacydebatevaccinesdebateevolution reddit’s premiere debate venue for the evolution versus creationism controversy..a subreddit for debating abortion: ethics, religion, politics all welcome.
a casual discussion forum - ask questions to christians of various backgrounds.
a subreddit on fallacies.
debate and discuss issues surrounding vaccinations..quraniyoondebatereligiondebateachristian a curated community designed speciﬁcally for rational debates about christian subjects.
askconservatives a subreddit for asking questions to conservatives..discuss the qur’an alone.
a place to discuss and debate religion..debateavegan.
a place for open discussion about veganism and vegan issues..table 1: top 10 subreddits with highest ratio of comments mentioning a fallacy per number of subscribers..20 comments that mention one of our frequent fal-lacies and the comment to which they reply (thepotential fallacious comment), and we check if theusers have a good understanding of the respectivefallacies.
we keep the fallacies for which usersgenerally had a correct sense of their deﬁnition.
inaddition, we ﬁlter fallacy types if more than 60%of potential fallacious comments were not true fal-lacious arguments.
these conditions assure thatthe comments we will label have good quality andthat we will ﬁnd sufﬁcient actual fallacy examples.
the remaining fallacies are selected for the cre-ation of an annotated dataset of fallacies.
these 8fallacies are:.
appeal to authority / argument from authorityfallacy / argumentum ad verecundiam.
deﬁni-tion.
the claim is supported by the opinion of aperson with authority, hence the claim is true.
ex-ample.
being vegan makes no sense because myfather said so..appeal to majority / bandwagon argument / ap-peal to widespread belief / appeal to the peoplefallacy / argumentum ad populum.
deﬁnition.
a claim is true because many people believe it tobe true.
example.
being vegan makes no sensebecause so many of us are meat eaters..appeal to nature / naturalistic fallacy.
deﬁni-tion.
an action a is justiﬁed/unjustiﬁed because itoccurs/does not occur in nature.
example.
beingvegan makes no sense as our body is designed foreating meat..appeal to tradition fallacy / argumentum adantiquitatem.
deﬁnition.
an action a is justi-ﬁed/unjustiﬁed because it has always been consid-ered as such in the past.
example.
being vegan.
makes no sense as our ancestors have been meateaters..appeal to worse problems / relative privation /not as bad as fallacy.
deﬁnition.
there existsproblem a that is worse than problem b, thereforeb is justiﬁed..false dilemma /.
false di-black-or-white /chotomy / bifurcation fallacy.
deﬁnition.
inthis argument, the claim is that only an event/actiona should be considered.
the ﬁrst premise is thatonly two events, a and b are possible when thereis at least a third event c possible.
the secondpremise is that one of the events is bad, for ex-ample b, thus only event a should be considered.
example.
you must wear a mask each time you goout, otherwise, you will die of covid-19..hasty generalization fallacy.
deﬁnition.
theclaim is supported by insufﬁcient evidence throughinductive generalization.
more precisely, we knowthat predicate p is true for a population sample,and we suppose it is true for the entire population.
however, the sample is too small or it is not rep-resentative of the population.
example.
the ﬁrstweek of september has been sunny, which meansthe rest of the month will be the same..slippery slope / thin edge of the wedge / camel’snose fallacy.
deﬁnition.
a small event a willhave a big unwanted consequence c. there is atleast one more event b in the chain of causality (awill cause b, b will cause c), hence the slipperyslope name of the fallacy.
example.
if you breakyour diet and have one cookie tonight, you will justwant to eat 10 cookies tomorrow and 20 the dayafter, and before you know it, you will have gainedback the 15 pounds you lost..647rule violation.
according to the pragma dialec-tic theory, an argument is a fallacy if it violatesa critical discussion rule.
the arguments aboveviolate one of two rules, hence they are fallacies.
the ﬁrst rule violated states that defending a claimmust occur through an appropriate argumentationscheme that is correctly applied.
argumentationschemes in van eemeren and grootendorst (1995)are different than schemes in walton (2005).
theyare a formalization of the relation between the evi-dence presented and the standpoint to be defended.
this rule is violated by all fallacies, except black-or-white.
for example, in slippery slope, the argu-mentation is not valid as there is no clear causalitychain between a and c. black-or-white fallacy vio-lates the rule that a party should not falsely presenta premise as an accepted starting point, by statingthat only events a and b are possible..4 dataset.
noisy labels.
we used amazon mechanical turkto create our annotated dataset.
we selected 4 mas-ter annotators, which had the highest agreementwith the authors on identifying a set of fallacies (70samples).
an annotation task, deﬁned as a hit1consists of 10 items.
each item presents a sam-ple extracted from a reddit discussion.
a redditdiscussion is started by a submission, e.g., a newsarticle or a piece of text, to which users engage bywriting comments.
the comments and submissionare organized in a tree-like structure: the submis-sion is the root, and comments are nodes in thetree; we will use the terms grandparent, parent, andchild to denote relations between comments.
asample given for annotation includes the title andthe link of the original reddit submission and fourcomments:.
• the comment containing the mention of the.
fallacy (this is the label comment);.
• the parent of the label comment, which shouldcontain the fallacious argument (the commentof interest or coi);.
• the parent of the coi, to give more context.
for the discussion;.
• a direct reply to the label comment; preferencewas given to replies that had the same authoras the coi; if no such comment existed, thenwe choose the top-rated comment..an example of a sample is shown in figure 1..1human intelligence task on amazon turk.
for each fallacy described in section 3, we re-trieve all the label comments mentioning it and thecontext needed for creating a sample discussion(item).
we keep the items for which: i) the com-ments are relatively short: the label comment hasless than 500 characters (a shorter text will morelikely be an accusation of committing a fallacy),and the other comments have less than 1000 char-acters; ii) we have enough context to understandthe discussion:the coi is a direct reply to thesubmission or the child comment of a direct reply;iii) the coi or its parent do not contain the sub-string ‘fallac’, a sign that this could be a discussionon fallacies and therefore the coi does not containa fallacious argument, but it merely discusses orpoints out one.
iv) we have access to the originaldiscussion: the user or a moderator did not deletethe comments, and the submission is not from abanned subreddit (the annotators can visit the linkprovided with the submission title); v) all the com-ments are in english..crowdsourcing task.
workers were presentedwith concise descriptions of the main concepts in-volved: argument, claim, evidence and fallacy.
allthe items in a hit have to be annotated only forone fallacy.
for example, we retrieved all the itemswhere the label comment mentioned “hasty gen-eralization fallacy” and we split them into hits.
we note that the fallacy committed in the commentmight not be the same as the one signaled by theuser.
however, the authors have reviewed a largesample of comments (for the third vote explainedfurther in this section) and did not encounter thissituation.
hence, even if this might still occur, itshould be rare.
for each selected fallacy, we of-fered the deﬁnition together with an example of thefallacy, where we identiﬁed the claim and evidence.
furthermore, we instruct the workers not to labelas a fallacy a comment that is sarcastic (sometimesaccompanied by the explicit tag “/s”) or a commentthat is disproving the fallacy, e.g., who would thinkthat we shouldn’t become vegans just because ourbody is able to digest meat?..
the workers are asked if the fallacy occurs in thecomment of interest and if yes, they are promptedto highlight the corresponding text span.
they arealso asked to write the claim that is addressed bythe comment of interest.
finally, they have to an-swer a question speciﬁc to each fallacy to provetheir good understanding of the task.
the ques-tions are: i) appeal to authority: “what authority.
648is being appealed to in the comment of interest,and hence is used as the basis for the argument?”;ii) appeal to majority: no question; iii) appeal tonature: “what natural phenomenon/event/activityis considered natural here?” iv) appeal to tradition:“what tradition is being appealed to in the commentof interest, and hence is used as the basis for the ar-gument?”; v) appeal to worse problems: “describewhy the current problem (problem 1) is not a trivialissue.” vi) black-or-white: “name any additional al-ternative, which is possible but is not mentioned inthe comment of interest.” vii) hasty generalization:“describe a case where the (hasty) generalizationwill fail.” viii) slippery slope: “please list any oneevent in the chain of slippery slope argument.” byanswering these questions, the workers would takethe time to understand why the argument was afallacy..annotated dataset.
a hit is annotated by twoworkers.
we compute the cohen’s κ agreement forthe task of deciding if a comment contains a fallacy(comment-level annotation), and γ inter-annotatoragreement (mathet et al., 2015) for the task of high-lighting the tokens of the fallacy within the coi(token-level annotation), as shown in table 2. forboth measures, 1. implies perfect agreement.
thecomment-level annotation agreement varies fromfair (black-or-white and hasty generalization) tosubstantial (appeal to authority), with the majorityof fallacies in the moderate interval.
the token-level agreement is moderate for appeal to worseproblems and substantial for the rest..fallacy.
comment(cohen’s κ).
token(γ).
appeal to authorityappeal to majorityappeal to natureappeal to traditionappeal to worse problemsblack-or-whitehasty generalizationslippery slope.
0.640.470.600.550.590.400.380.49.
0.680.790.740.800.600.680.710.61.table 2: agreement between annotators..in addition to the workers’ votes, an expert an-notator casts a third vote on comments, wheneverthere is a disagreement on the label.
a comment ismarked as fallacious if it has received two fallacyvotes.
the corresponding fallacious tokens of thecomment are the union of the tokens highlighted by.
the annotators.
we annotated comments until wereached roughly 200 fallacious comments per fal-lacy type.
the details of the dataset are presentedin table 3..fallacy.
number ofcomments.
mean tokensin spans.
appeal to authorityappeal to majorityappeal to natureappeal to traditionappeal to worse problemsblack-or-whitehasty generalizationslippery slope.
212196208210239211204228.
21.49 ± 15.0015.52 ± 11.5515.16 ± 9.6116.35 ± 9.0725.71 ± 17.4421.80 ± 14.7719.76 ± 12.7227.98 ± 19.23.overall.
1708.
20.69 ± 14.93.table 3: fallacious comments and tokens..the total size of our annotated dataset, includ-ing comments and tokens that are non fallacious,consists of 3358 comments and 160k tokens.
weobserve that to ﬁnd 1708 fallacious comments, weannotated only about two times more comments.
this shows that our technique of ﬁnding fallaciouscomments is efﬁcient..we investigate if the label comment (i.e., thecomment containing mention of the fallacy) is trulyindicative of a fallacy in the coi.
this can be use-ful for ﬂagging the label comments that are likelyto point to fallacious coi, therefore eliminatingor reducing the need for crowdsourcing.
our in-tuition is that a classiﬁcation method might dif-ferentiate when comments are accusations or justmention of fallacies.
to investigate this, we usedthe fallacy/no-fallacy annotation as classes for labelcomment and trained a binary bert classiﬁer (de-vlin et al., 2019).
we obtained an f1 score of 67.41,indicating that the label comment’s content is notsufﬁciently reliable.
in conclusion, human annota-tors are still needed for annotating the true class ofthe coi..non fallacious comments.
the comments forwhich two annotators conﬁrmed they were not fal-lacious represent our annotated negatives (1650comments).
in order to have a more diverse setof negative examples, i.e.
on similar and differenttopics, we construct a second set of negative exam-ples (6400 comments) as follows.
we retrieve allthe users that wrote a label comment to a coi andthe coi was identiﬁed as fallacious in the annota-tion, our gold users.
we take all their comments.
649after the timestamp of the label comment that donot mention a fallacy name, and retrieve their par-ent comment.
for each comment in the annotateddataset, we select one sample from our pool ofparent comments from the same subreddit (if thisexists) and one from a subreddit not seen in theannotated dataset.
we retrieve a total of 6400 sam-ples.
these comments are used together with theannotated dataset, to create our full dataset, usedto train classiﬁcation models.
the intuition of thesampling strategy is that, the gold users were ableto recognize true fallacies at least one time, so theyshould spot other fallacies.
hence, if they replyto a comment without ﬂagging it, the parent com-ment is likely to be non fallacious.
there could befallacious comments in this sample; however, weconsider it less likely than a random sample..5 models and discussion.
tasks.
we address four tasks leveraging our an-notated dataset, listed in the order of increasinggranularity: i) comment-level (cl) fallacy iden-tiﬁcation (binary task of predicting if a comment isfallacious or not); ii) comment-level fallacy typeidentiﬁcation (multi class prediction of the typeof fallacy, with non-fallacious as one class in the9 classes); iii) token-level (tl) fallacy identiﬁca-tion (binary task of predicting if tokens in the coibelong to a fallacy or not); iv) token-level fallacytype identiﬁcation (multi class prediction of to-kens in the coi into one of the eight fallacy classesor the non-fallacy class)..5.1 models.
random.
we generate predictions by respectingthe class distributions in the training set..bert.
we ﬁne-tune bert by adding a linearlayer on top of generated contextual representa-tions.
we use the token level embedding in tokendetection tasks and [cls] embedding in the caseof classiﬁcation tasks..mgn.
we adopt the best architecture reported inda san martino et al.
(2019), which is a multi-granularity network that uses lower granularitysentence-level (which is comment-level in this set-ting) representation together with higher granular-ity token-level representations to jointly train thenetwork.
we set the dimension of lower granularityembedding representation equal to the number ofclasses in the task.
we jointly train tasks where.
number of classes are the same, that is, cl & tlfallacy identiﬁcation tasks are trained together andso are cl & tl fallacy type identiﬁcation tasks.
we use sigmoid activation as it is the best modelfor their fragment (token) level classiﬁcation andis comparable for the sentence level classiﬁer.
thismodel has been shown to give good results forpredicting propaganda techniques, which includefallacies..conversation context.
our dataset is rich intextual information related to the coi, whichcould improve prediction.
we deﬁne contextas the parent comment of coi (if it exists, thestring “none” otherwise) or the submission title.
this is provided to the classiﬁer in the format:[cls] coi tokens [sep] contexttokens [sep].
the context tokens get a‘non-fallacy’ token-level label at the training time,but during the validation or test set evaluation,only the coi token labels are used.
the [cls]token is used for cl tasks.
this results in fourextensions of the previous models: bert-t,bert-p, mgn-t, mgn-p, where t stands fortitle and p for parent comment..setup.
we use pytorch (paszke et al., 2019) andthe pre-trained bert model (devlin et al., 2019;wolf et al., 2020).
we ﬁne-tune bert using batchsize 8, maximum sequence length 256 for coi &64 for context, and monitored the macro-averagedf12 score on the validation set, as identiﬁcationof all classes is equally important.
we use theadamw optimizer, with a learning rate of 5e−5.
we weigh the cross-entropy loss function accord-ing to the class distribution in training data.
wesplit the dataset into training (70%), validation(20%) and test (10%) sets, hence the full datasethas 6823, 1950 & 977 and annotated dataset has2351, 671 & 336 comments respectively.
we re-peat the experiments with 5 different random seedsfor the network intialization and we average theresults..5.2 discussion.
in table 4, we show the results of comment levelfallacy and fallacy type identiﬁcation.
all the re-sults are macro scores (precision, recall and f1).
the mgn models obtain the best results, mostoften when context is added.
the full dataset pro-vides a wider mix of topics via noisy negative sam-.
2all reported f1 scores are macro f1..650model.
p.binaryr.f1.
multi classr.p.f1.
full dataset.
randombertbert-tbert-pmgnmgn-tmgn-p.randombertbert-tbert-pmgnmgn-tmgn-p.annotated data.
47.6766.3167.5468.7369.5070.7371.15.
46.3566.91866.7666.7267.7269.5769.53.
47.6766.2869.0168.7570.0168.7668.72.
46.3564.0066.5766.5467.5469.2768.99.
47.6766.1567.9968.5269.6969.6169.62.
46.3561.1666.4466.4567.4569.2068.86.
9.9850.0346.9338.0847.8751.1850.06.
13.0162.2562.0361.0859.8162.7262.96.
10.0248.8049.4949.8548.5948.2250.38.
13.1655.6355.8856.6154.7255.9155.85.
10.0048.3046.5741.8347.1449.0648.53.
13.0457.8357.9357.9056.1958.4158.17.table 4: comment level (cl) prediction for coi..model.
p.binaryr.f1.
multi classr.p.f1.
full dataset.
randombertbert-tbert-pmgnmgn-tmgn-p.randombertbert-tbert-pmgnmgn-tmgn-p.annotated data.
49.7478.0176.2477.1677.3676.7176.75.
50.3869.0968.2568.4369.3070.9570.08.
49.7473.5973.7174.1574.6174.0974.55.
50.3866.1668.2367.9568.5270.0669.73.
49.7475.5274.8775.5175.8675.2675.57.
50.3863.3368.1568.0968.8370.2669.88.
10.9444.8343.6743.9441.2040.5641.26.
11.0452.2051.2652.0450.5951.7950.01.
10.9350.0852.1452.1548.3150.7051.69.
11.0255.1656.7855.9053.9655.4556.08.
10.9446.6446.7647.0743.7444.3745.12.
11.0352.8053.2153.4451.6553.0252.28.table 5: token level (tl) prediction for coi..full data.
annotated data.
fallacy.
cl.
tl.
cl.
tl.
appeal to authorityappeal to majorityappeal to natureappeal to traditionappeal to worse problemsblack-or-whitehasty generalizationslippery slope.
44.4745.1169.1656.9235.3142.0318.7639.54.
85.6526.6951.2255.0820.8131.6921.6037.68.
54.3766.4172.1666.0843.8951.2944.2457.37.
75.1136.1157.5560.4330.7338.0543.4155.57.table 6: f1 score per fallacy from best classiﬁers..ples and pronounces the class imbalance, closer toa real sample of reddit conversations.
despite this,the classiﬁer is able to learn across all four tasks..table 5 presents the results for token level fal-lacy and fallacy type identiﬁcation.
bert mod-.
els obtain better results for the multi class setting,while mgn for the binary setting.
this is compa-rable with the results reported in da san martinoet al.
(2019), where the authors observe a smallerimprovement in classiﬁcation for the token levelprediction using mgn..adding more context in the form of title or parentof the coi generally led to improved performance.
while the results are slightly better when addingthe title, the differences are small.
we speculatethat parent and coi provided a complete argument,making fallacy detection a bit easier..in table 6, we show the f1 score per fallacy class.
appeal to authority, nature, and tradition performwell (f 1 > 40%) across all four tasks.
hastygeneralization has a rather poor performance; thiscan be attributed to this fallacy’s general difﬁculty,given that the workers also had low agreement onthis fallacy (table 2).
we observe that generallythe comment level prediction task is easier than thetoken level prediction, which is expected due to thegranularity difference..topical confounds.
while fallacies might ap-pear more frequently in discussions on certain top-ics, a fallacy detection approach should identifythe underlying argument structure, and not just thepresence of a topic.
for example, we do not wantto label all discussions about nature as appeal tonature fallacies.
to identify if the classiﬁers aresensitive to topical biases, we use the approachpresented in (kumar et al., 2019).
we computestatistically overrepresented tokens in each propa-ganda technique in the training set using log-oddsratio with dirichlet prior (monroe et al., 2008).
wepresent the top 10 tokens per fallacy in table 7.we observe that for appeal to authority, nature andtradition, the tokens are topically cohesive, as theyrevolve around notions of authority, nature and tra-dition.
for the other fallacies, while it is intuitivewhy some words may be overrepresented, there isno clear topical cohesiveness.
to verify that ourclassiﬁers learn linguistic patterns and not topics,we replace the top 30 tokens strongly associatedwith each fallacy (computed from the training set)with a special token in the test set.
we evaluateonly the comment level prediction, as results onthe token level might be hard to interpret giventhat we replace tokens.
we show the results intable 8. we observe a large decrease in f1 score(more than 10% on the full data) for 2 fallacies:appeal to nature and appeal to tradition.
a big.
651fallacy.
overrepresented tokens.
medical, experts, expert, ﬁeld, university, listen, degree, dr., professional, academicappeal to authoritymajority, billion, reality, cult, christianity, followers, believe, nations, news, believedappeal to majorityanimals, nature, eat, natural, meat, humans, food, species, killing, animalappeal to naturemeat, years, marriage, history, eating, culture, vegan, thousands, tradition, ancestorsappeal to traditionappeal to worse problems worse, world, problems, country, people, living, compared, dying, poverty, prioritiesblack-or-whitehasty generalizationslippery slope.
pick, review, tax, gun, god, instead, absurd, proﬁts, industry, paycheckhttp, grew, friends, muslim, went, business, seen, grade, jesus, driversgovernment, slippery, slope, ban, stop, speech, remove, guns, line, start.
table 7: top 10 tokens statistically overrepresented in each fallacy in the training set..fallacy.
full data annotated data.
appeal to authorityappeal to majorityappeal to natureappeal to traditionappeal to worse problemsblack-or-whitehasty generalizationslippery slope.
42.4741.5921.6241.8027.2539.1013.4034.76.
54.0364.0233.2849.2032.6648.7241.3654.44.table 8: f1 score on comment level (cl) per fallacyafter removing top 30 overrepresented words..drop in the f1 score on the full data is more signif-icant than on the annotated data, as the classiﬁerwould have seen more negative examples contain-ing the confounds.
given the observed decrease inf1 score for these fallacies, an important future di-rection is to annotate more discussions containingthe overrepresented words to ﬁnd a better qualitynegative set, i.e., non-fallacious comments on thesame topics.
we note that for the other fallacies,the models appear to learn more complex languagestructures as they are less sensitive to the removalof the overrepresented words..6 conclusion and future work.
in this work, we present a methodology for miningand labeling fallacious comments in online discus-sions.
we ﬁnd frequent fallacy mentions on redditand the subreddits in which they are the most preva-lent.
we create a large corpus of annotated com-ments and experiment with several neural methodsfor classiﬁcation.
we explore methods that con-sider the context of the discussion, and we showthat they give better results..there are several exciting directions for continu-ing this work.
first, using our methodology, we canannotate more comments for the eight fallacies westudied in this paper, we can improve the negative.
example set or explore other types of fallacies.
sec-ond, we can study another aspect of the discussion,the speech acts.
according to the pragma dialectictheory, an argument is composed of several speechacts.
investigating if certain speech acts are moreprevalent in fallacious discussions might lead to im-proved detection of fallacies.
lastly, in the pragmadialectic theory of argumentation, fallacies are vio-lations of rules of critical discussion, for example,the fallacies we annotated violate two rules, as de-scribed in section 3. given the signiﬁcant numberof fallacy types, we believe that a hierarchical ap-proach to their detection could prove more efﬁcient:identifying if a conversation violates one of the tenrules of critical conversation, and then for that par-ticular rule identifying the type of fallacy..acknowledgements.
we would like to thank the acl reviewers for theirhelpful feedback.
we would also like to thankmeghana m. bhat and dravyansh sharma for theirhelpful comments on the initial draft.
this workwas performed using hpc resources from genci-idris (grant 2020-ad011011614)..references.
jason baumgartner, savvas zannettou, brian keegan,megan squire, and jeremy blackburn.
2020. thepushshift reddit dataset.
proceedings of the interna-tional aaai conference on web and social media,14(1):830–839..giovanni da san martino, seunghak yu, albertobarr´on-cede˜no, rostislav petrov,and preslavnakov.
2019. fine-grained analysis of propagandain proceedings of the 2019 con-in news article.
ference on empirical methods in natural languageprocessing and the 9th international joint confer-ence on natural language processing (emnlp-ijcnlp), pages 5636–5646, hong kong, china.
as-sociation for computational linguistics..652jacob devlin, ming-wei chang, kenton lee, andkristina toutanova.
2019. bert: pre-training ofdeep bidirectional transformers for language under-in proceedings of the 2019 conferencestanding.
of the north american chapter of the associationfor computational linguistics: human languagetechnologies, volume 1 (long and short papers),pages 4171–4186, minneapolis, minnesota.
associ-ation for computational linguistics..frans h. van eemeren and rob grootendorst.
1995.argumentation, communication, and fallacies: aphilosophy andpragma-dialectical perspective.
rhetoric, 28(4):426–430..ivan habernal, raffael hannemann, christian pol-lak, christopher klamm, patrick pauli, and irynagurevych.
2017. argotario: computational argu-mentation meets serious games.
in proceedings ofthe 2017 conference on empirical methods in nat-ural language processing: system demonstrations,pages 7–12, copenhagen, denmark.
association forcomputational linguistics..ivan habernal, patrick pauli, and iryna gurevych.
2018a.
adapting serious game for fallacious argu-mentation to german: pitfalls, insights, and bestin proceedings of the eleventh interna-practices.
tional conference on language resources and eval-uation (lrec 2018), miyazaki, japan.
europeanlanguage resources association (elra)..ivan habernal, henning wachsmuth, iryna gurevych,and benno stein.
2018b.
before name-calling: dy-namics and triggers of ad hominem fallacies in webargumentation.
in proceedings of the 2018 confer-ence of the north american chapter of the associ-ation for computational linguistics: human lan-guage technologies, volume 1 (long papers), pages386–396, new orleans, louisiana.
association forcomputational linguistics..hans hansen.
2020. fallacies.
in edward n. zalta, ed-itor, the stanford encyclopedia of philosophy, sum-mer 2020 edition.
metaphysics research lab, stan-ford university..sachin kumar, shuly wintner, noah a. smith, andyulia tsvetkov.
2019. topics to avoid: demotingin proceed-latent confounds in text classiﬁcation.
ings of the 2019 conference on empirical methodsin natural language processing and the 9th inter-national joint conference on natural language pro-cessing (emnlp-ijcnlp), pages 4153–4163, hongkong, china.
association for computational lin-guistics..yann mathet, antoine widl¨ocher, and jean-philippem´etivier.
2015. the uniﬁed and holistic methodgamma (ˆi³)inter-annotator agreement mea-sure and alignment.
computational linguistics,41(3):437–479..for.
burt l monroe, michael p colaresi, and kevin mquinn.
2008. fightin’words: lexical feature selec-tion and evaluation for identifying the content of po-litical conﬂict.
political analysis, 16(4):372–403..adam paszke, sam gross, francisco massa, adamlerer, james bradbury, gregory chanan, trevorkilleen, zeming lin, natalia gimelshein, lucaantiga, alban desmaison, andreas kopf, edwardyang, zachary devito, martin raison, alykhan te-jani, sasank chilamkurthy, benoit steiner, lu fang,junjie bai, and soumith chintala.
2019.py-torch: an imperative style, high-performance deeplearning library.
in h. wallach, h. larochelle,a. beygelzimer, f. d'alch´e-buc, e. fox, and r. gar-nett, editors, advances in neural information pro-cessing systems 32, pages 8024–8035.
curran asso-ciates, inc..judith a. sanders, richard l. wiseman, and robert h.gass.
1994. does teaching argumentation facil-itate critical thinking?
communication reports,7(1):27–35..frank scalambrino.
2018. psychologist’s fallacy: 100of the most important fallacies in western philoso-phy, pages 204–207..john r searle.
1979. expression and meaning: studies.
in the theory of speech acts..douglas walton.
2005. justiﬁcation of argumentationschemes.
the australasian journal of logic, 3..thomas wolf, lysandre debut, victor sanh, julienchaumond, clement delangue, anthony moi, pier-ric cistac, tim rault, r´emi louf, morgan funtow-icz, joe davison, sam shleifer, patrick von platen,clara ma, yacine jernite, julien plu, canwen xu,teven le scao, sylvain gugger, mariama drame,quentin lhoest, and alexander m. rush.
2020.transformers: state-of-the-art natural language pro-cessing.
in proceedings of the 2020 conference onempirical methods in natural language processing:system demonstrations, pages 38–45, online.
asso-ciation for computational linguistics..653a frequent fallacies on reddit.
in this appendix, we review the most frequent falla-cies on reddit.
our goal is to understand how easywould be to annotate such fallacies, by looking attheir deﬁnition and examples of how well redditusers understand those deﬁnitions..let a,b,c,d be examples of persons, events, oractions.
an argument consists of a standpoint s(known also as a claim or conclusion) and the sup-porting evidence (known also as the premises) forthe standpoint.
let the person making/supportingthe standpoint be referred to as the protagonist andthe person disputing the standpoint as the antago-nist.
when referring to either protagonist or antag-onist, we use the term party..an argumentation scheme is a formalization ofthe relation between the evidence presented and thestandpoint to be defended.
types of schemes:.
• symptomatic argumentation: what is stated inthe argument premise is an expression or asign of what is stated in the conclusion..tu quoque.
association / (guilt by/ honor by) association/ reductio ad hitlerum fallacy.
deﬁnition.
theantagonist is disproving the claim of the protagonistby stating that this claim was supported by a badgroup, hence the protagonist is also a bad person.
example.
you say public healthcare is a good thing,but the communists say the same thing.
/.
/whataboutism fallacy.
in thisargument, the protagonist makes a claim s. theantagonist states that the claim s is in contradictionwith the previous actions/attitudes of the protago-nist (showing hypocrisy), thus the claim must befalse.
example.
to the statement “putin is a killer”,trump responded, “there are a lot of killers.
youthink our country’s so innocent?” - interview withfox news’ bill o’reilly..to hypocrisy.
deﬁnition..appeal.
poisoning the well fallacy.
deﬁnition.
this ar-gument is a preemptive ad hominem, where theprotagonist is attacked before advancing a stand-point.
example.
i am sure anna will say she gavethe money back, but you know she always lies..• argumentation based on similarities: anal-ogy between what is stated in the argumentpremise and what is stated in the conclusion..rule 2. a party that advances a standpoint isobliged to defend it if the other party asks himto do so..• instrumental argumentation: argument and theconclusion are linked by a very broad relationof causality..fallacies are classiﬁed based on the argumen-tation rules they break out of the ten introducedin (van eemeren and grootendorst, 1995).
eachfallacy is presented by giving all its possible namevariations that link back to the same deﬁnition, itsdeﬁnition, and an example..rule 1. parties must not prevent each otherfrom advancing standpoints or casting doubton standpoints..genetic fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the antagonist re-jects a claim stating that the source of the claimshould not be trusted.
the unexpressed premiseis that every claim coming from the same sourceis likely to be false.
example.
fox news alwayswrites junk news, i am sure that hunter biden didnot break the law..ad hominem fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the antago-nist rejects a standpoint based not on the strengthof the argument, but on perceived ﬂaws of the pro-tagonist, who is defending it.
example.
you aresuch a bad student, i don’t believe you got an a atmaths..ignorantiam /.
argumentum ad.
/ burden of proof.
onus/ argumentprobandifrom ignorance / appeal to ignorance fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the protagonist claims that a standpointmust be true because there is no or not sufﬁcientevidence against it.
as pointed out in (vaneemeren and grootendorst, 1995), there can betwo situations: i) the protagonist is challenging theantagonist to prove that their standpoint is wrong(rule 2) or ii) the protagonist is stating that becausethe negation of their standpoint cannot be proventrue, then their standpoint is true (rule 9).
example.
i have heard that vaccines are bad, prove me thatthey are good for your health!.
rule 3. a party’s attack on a standpoint mustrelate to the standpoint that has indeed been ad-vanced by the other party..straw man fallacy.
the antagonist is: i) dis-torting the standpoint advanced by the protagonist(rule 3) or ii) attributing a false standpoint (rule5).
example.
protagonist: i believe that womenshould have the right to abortion in the ﬁrst term.
antagonist: so you’re okay with killing babies..nirvana / perfect solution fallacy.
deﬁnition.
in this argument, the protagonist is advancing the.
654claim that an action a is desirable as it will achievea positive result.
the antagonist rebuts this claimby stating that a will not achieve the perfect out-come, even if the perfect outcome is not speciﬁedin the claim.
the antagonist modiﬁes the claim,by stating “action a will achieve the perfect out-come”.
example.
protagonist: using less plastic isgood for the planet.
antagonist: we need to stopusing plastic altogether to make any progress..moving the goalposts / raising the bar fallacy.
deﬁnition.
this fallacy is similar to the nirvanafallacy, however, the antagonist is not aiming forthe perfect outcome, but for better outcome than theone initially described by the protagonist.
example.
we should stop killing animals for food, they feelpain.
what about plants, how do you know if theydon’t feel?.
rule 4. a party may defend his standpointonly by advancing argumentation relating tothat standpoint../.
ignoratio elenchi.
irrelevant conclusion /missing the point fallacy.
deﬁnition.
in this argu-ment, the protagonist uses premises that are irrel-evant to the claim.
example.
his policies are notgood enough, but my cousin says he talks well..rule 5. a party may not falsely present some-thing as a premise that has been left unex-pressed by the other party or deny a premisethat they himself have left implicit..straw man fallacy.
already deﬁned for rule 3..rule 6. a party may not falsely present apremise as an accepted starting point nor denya premise representing an accepted startingpoint..circulus in demonstrando / petitio principii/ begging the question / circular reasoning fal-lacy.
deﬁnition.
in this argument, the evidenceassumes that the claim is true.
example.
everyonelikes me because i am the most liked politician..plurium interrogationum / fallacy of manyquestions / fallacy of presuppositions / complexquestion / loaded question fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the standpoint brought forward by the protagonistis implying that at least another standpoint shouldbe true.
example.
annie is a better person than thathorrible guy john..false dilemma / false dichotomy / bifurcation/ black-or-white fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the protago-nist pushes the standpoint s that only the event or.
action a should be considered.
the ﬁrst premiseis that only two events a and b are possible, whenthere is at least a third event c possible.
the sec-ond premise is that one of the events is bad, forexample b, thus only event a should be considered.
example.
you must wear a mask each time you goout, otherwise you will die of covid-19..rule 7. a party may not regard a standpointas conclusively defended if the defense does nottake place by means of an appropriate argu-mentation scheme that is correctly applied..relative privation / appeal to worse problems/ not as bad as fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the protago-nist states that there exists a that is worse than b,therefore b is justiﬁed.
the applied argumentationscheme is argumentation based on similarity.
aand b are both bad actions, events or people, butinstead of stressing the similarity, the protagonisttries to stress how a is bad, thus making b lookbetter.
example.
you shouldn’t complain if thefood is stale as there are millions of people starvingwho would be grateful for any meal they get..gambler’s fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the protagonistdefends a probabilistic claim such as “an event ais very likely to occur”.
the mistake in argumen-tation appears if the evidence is based on falselysupposing that event a and event b are dependent,so if event a occurs, the probability of b occur-ring changes.
this argument violates rule 7 as isit based on a faulty application of instrumental ar-gumentation.
example.
my coin landed twice in arow on heads, hence it should land next on tails..slippery slope / thin edge of the wedge /camel’s nose fallacy.
deﬁnition.
this fallacy con-sists in claiming that a small event a has a big un-wanted consequence c. there is at least one moreevent b in the chain of causality (a will cause b,b will cause c), hence the slippery slope name ofthe fallacy.
this argument violates rule 7, as theinstrumental argumentation does not hold giventhat there is no clear causality chain between a andc. example.
if you break your diet and have onecookie tonight, you will just want to eat 10 cook-ies tomorrow and 20 the day after, and before youknow it, you will have gained back the 15 poundsyou lost..no true scotsman fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the pro-tagonist tries to make a generalization, which isa valid instrumental argumentation scheme: whena predicate p is true for an arbitrary member of agroup, then it is true for any member of the group..655however, it changes the deﬁnition of the predi-cate p, so therefore the argument violates rule 7,as the instrumental argumentation does not holdanymore.
example.
“no scotsman puts sugar onhis porridge”..post hoc ergo propter hoc / temporal se-quence implies causation fallacy.
deﬁnition.
theprotagonist states that because event a occurredﬁrst and event b occurred second, a caused b. thisargument violates rule 7, as it tries to present aninstrumental argumentation, without providing ev-idence that shows how event a and b are linked.
example.
my boyfriend left me after he saw you,it must have been something you said..argumentum ad verecundiam / appeal to au-thority / argument from authority fallacy.
deﬁ-nition.
in this argument, because the claim is sup-ported by the opinion of a person with authority,then the claim is true.
rule 7 is violated becausethe symptomatic argumentation is incorrectly used:while authorities can make true claims, we can notconsider them true as such if they are not backedup by evidence.
example.
being vegan makes nosense because my father said so..argumentum ad populum / appealtowidespread belief / bandwagon argument / ap-peal to the majority / appeal to the people fal-lacy.
deﬁnition.
a claim is presented as true be-cause many people believe it to be true.
rule 7 isviolated because the symptomatic argumentation isnot used correctly: while people do believe manythings that are true, belief is not sufﬁcient.
exam-ple.
being vegan makes no sense because so manyof us are meat eaters..appeal to nature / naturalistic fallacy.
deﬁ-nition.
the protagonist states that an action a isjustiﬁed or good.
the premise is that action a isgood because it is natural.
the argument violatesrule 7 as it uses the symptomatic argumentationin a wrong way: some actions that are natural aregood, however we cannot conclude they are goodbecause they are natural.
example.
being veganmakes no sense as our body is designed for eatingmeat..argumentum ad antiquitatem / appeal to tra-dition fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the protagonist statesthat an action a is justiﬁed or good.
the premiseis that it has always been considered as such in thepast, but no further justiﬁcation is given.
the unex-pressed premise of the argument is that everythingthat is done since a long time is good or justiﬁed asit has withstood criticism.
however, this premise.
is also an opinion and not a fact.
example.
beingvegan makes no sense as our ancestors have beenmeat eaters..divine / argument from incredulity / appealto common sense fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the stand-point appears incredible and not common sensefrom the perspective of the antagonist, and such itcan be dismissed as false.
in addition, everythingthat appears as common sense should be true.
theargument uses the symptomatic argumentation ina wrong way: some actions that are incredible arefalse, however we cannot conclude that all incredi-ble actions are false.
example.
as disinfectant isefﬁcient against covid-19, it should be effectivealso if we drink it..hasty generalization fallacy.
deﬁnition.
inthis argument, the claim is supported by insufﬁcientevidence through inductive generalization.
moreprecisely, we know that predicate p is true for asample of a population and we suppose it is truefor the entire population.
however, in this case thesample is either too small or it is not representativeof the population.
example.
the ﬁrst two weeksof september were sunny, it means the rest of themonth will be the same..volvo / anecdotal / proof by selected instances/ person who fallacy.
deﬁnition.
this fallacy isvery similar to the hasty generalization, as a claimis not supported by sufﬁcient evidence, but onlya small set of examples.
the difference betweenthe two fallacies is that the examples in anecdotalfallacy are usually personal examples.
example.
two years ago when i visited paris in septemberit was so nice and sunny, i am sure this year it willbe the same..cherry picking / suppressed evidence / in-complete evidence fallacy.
deﬁnition.
in this ar-gument, a claim is backed by incomplete evidence,that is only a subset of facts that support the claim,while a large body of facts is overlooked.
example.
my son is very smart, look he got an a at english!
but what about all his bad grades before that?.
accident fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the premisesbrought forward are generalizations that do notapply to the speciﬁc instances mentioned in theclaim.
example.
people bleed when they are ill, itmeans that your period is a sign of an illness..fallacy of composition.
deﬁnition.
the claimis that a property p is true of a ﬁnite set s, alsocalled in literature a whole.
the evidence is thatthe property p is true for an element e that is part.
656of s. the unexpressed premise is that all the ele-ments of the set are similar, which might be falseand needs evidence.
while this is similar to hastygeneralization, in the latter there is no notion ofa whole.
rule 7 is violated, as the instrumentalargumentation does not hold.
example.
becausethe leaves of a tree are green, the tree is also green.
fallacy of division.
deﬁnition.
the fallacies ofcomposition and division are the converse of oneanother.
the claim is that something is true of anelement e (let this be a property p), which belongsto a set s, called a whole.
the evidence is that p istrue for the set s. the unexpressed premise is thatall the elements of the set are similar, which mightbe false and needs evidence.
example.
if this treeis 100 years old, then each branch is 100 years old.
argumentum ad temperantiam / argumentto moderation / false compromise / middleground fallacy / fallacy of the mean.
deﬁnition.
let s1 and s2 be two standpoints that representvery different opinions on the same topic.
theclaim is that a third statement, s3, which is themiddle point between the two, is true.
example.
s1 : we are having ﬁnancial issues, we should ﬁreall new hires.
s2 : no, we shouldn’t ﬁre any of thenew people.
s3 : we should ﬁre half of them..continuum / sorites / line-drawing / baldman fallacy / fallacy of the beard / fallacy of theheap.
deﬁnition.
let s1 and s2 be two extremestandpoints.
because there isn’t a clear point wherewe pass from s1 to s2, it is supposed that there isno difference between them.
example.
once youdrink a sip of alcohol you will become irresponsi-ble and put your life in danger..rule 8.in his argumentation a party mayonly use arguments that are logically valid orcapable of being validated by making explicitone or more unexpressed premises..special pleading fallacy.
deﬁnition.
the pro-tagonist applies rules or principles to other peopleor situations, but says this does not apply to thecurrent situation without providing a justiﬁcation.
this is an application of a double standard.
exam-ple.
while it is true he is only a teenager, i amsure he wasn’t raped, he wanted to have intercoursewith that woman..rule 9. a failed defense of a standpoint mustresult in the party that put forward the stand-point retracting it and a conclusive defense inthe other party retracting his doubt about thestandpoint..ignorantiam /.
argumentum ad.
onus/ argumentprobandifrom ignorance / appeal to ignorance fallacy.
already deﬁned for rule 2../ burden of proof.
rule 10. a party must not use formulationsthat are insufﬁciently clear or confusingly am-biguous and he must interpret the other party’sformulations as carefully and accurately as pos-sible..equivocation fallacy.
deﬁnition.
in this argu-ment a word or expression is used with multiplemeanings, thus trying to capitalize on the confusionto approve or disprove a claim.
example.
if amer-icans are free, why do they have prisons?
- herefreedom has two meanings: the right to speak andact as one wants and the state of being imprisoned..b ethical considerations.
worker compensation.
before assigning thetasks to crowd workers, the authors did severalrounds of annotations themselves to determine theaverage time it takes to ﬁnish one hit (10 falla-cies).
on an average it took about 20 minutes toannotate 10 fallacies.
so we paid workers $5 perhit, averaging to $15/hour.
we still provided them1 hour, in order to not put them under undue stress.
also, we did not request any personal informationor opinions from the workers..banned and deleted content.
subreddits areclosely monitored by the moderators.
users have tocomply with reddit’s content policy, a lists a set ofrules enforced by the admins on every community.
any rule violation (like bullying, use of hate speech,attacking marginalized or vulnerable groups, etc.)
leads to the removal of posts/comments and, insome cases, banning a subreddit if the moderatorsfail to comply.
the removal of such comments andposts ensures that we do not have any banned ordeleted content in our dataset either..privacy of authors.
none of our proposed meth-ods does any proﬁling of reddit users who madecomments that appeared in our dataset.
no identiﬁ-cation of post/comment or their authors appears inour ﬁnal dataset or input to the models..data quality.
we describe our data collectionprocess extensively in section 4. all the data sam-ples appearing are annotated by two workers andresolved by authors if there is a disagreement be-tween the workers..657