a survey of code-switching: linguistic and social perspectives forlanguage technologies.
a. seza do˘gru¨ozghent university, gent, belgium as.dogruoz@ugent.be.
sunayana sitarammicrosoft research india, bangalore, india sunayana.sitaram@microsoft.com.
barbara e. bullockut at austin, austin, usa bbullock@austin.utexas.edu.
almeida jacqueline toribiout at austin, austin, usa toribio@austin.utexas.edu.
abstract.
the analysis of data in which multiple lan-guages are represented has gained popularityamong computational linguists in recent years.
so far, much of this research focuses mainlyon the improvement of computational meth-ods and largely ignores linguistic and socialaspects of c-s discussed across a wide rangeof languages within the long-established liter-ature in linguistics.
to ﬁll this gap, we offera survey of code-switching (c-s) covering theliterature in linguistics with a reﬂection on thekey issues in language technologies.
from thelinguistic perspective, we provide an overviewof structural and functional patterns of c-sfocusing on the literature from european andindian contexts as highly multilingual areas.
from the language technologies perspective,we discuss how massive language models failto represent diverse c-s types due to lack ofappropriate training data, lack of robust evalu-ation benchmarks for c-s (across multilingualsituations and types of c-s) and lack of end-to-end systems that cover sociolinguistic aspectsof c-s as well.
our survey will be a step to-wards an outcome of mutual beneﬁt for com-putational scientists and linguists with a sharedinterest in multilingualism and c-s..1 introduction.
it is common for individuals in multilingual com-munities to switch between languages in variousways, in speech and in writing.
in example 1,a bilingual child alternates between german andturkish (in bold) to describe her teacher at school.
note that the turkish possessive case marker (-si)is attached to a german noun (karakoc¸ and herken-rath, 2019)..1. frau kummer.
echte name-si christa..ms. kummer.
real name-poss.3sg christa.
‘ms.
kummer.
(her) real name is christa’.
the goal of this paper is to inform researchers incomputational linguistics (cl) and language tech-nologies about the linguistic and social aspects ofcode-switching (c-s) found in multilingual con-texts (e.g.
europe and india) and how linguistsdescribe and model them.
our intent is to increaseclarity and depth in computational investigations ofc-s and to bridge the ﬁelds so that they might bemutually reinforcing.
it is our hope that interestedreaders can proﬁt from the insights provided by thestudies reported in this survey, for instance, in un-derstanding the factors that guide c-s outcomes orin making use of existing annotation schema acrossmultilingual contexts..2 competing models of c-s.for linguists, the speciﬁc ways in which languagesare switched matters.
the use of a single spanishword in an english tweet (ex.
2) is not as syntac-tically complicated as the integration in ex.
1. infact, it may not signal multilingualism at all, simplyborrowing.
many words, particularly anglicisms,circulate globally: marketing, feedback, gay..2. this is a good baile!.
‘this is a good dance party!’ (solorio and liu,2008).
to produce example (2), the speaker needs to knowonly one spanish word.
but, to produce exam-ple (1), the speaker has to know what word orderand case marker to use, and which languages theyshould be drawn from.
nlp scholars are not alwaysconcerned with the difference between examples(1) and (2) so that, with some exceptions (bhatet al., 2016), grammatical work in nlp tends torely heavily on the notion of a matrix languagemodel advanced by joshi (1982) and later adaptedby myers-scotton (1997) as the matrix languageframe (mlf) model.
the mlf holds that one lan-guage provides the grammatical frame into which.
proceedingsofthe59thannualmeetingoftheassociationforcomputationallinguisticsandthe11thinternationaljointconferenceonnaturallanguageprocessing,pages1654–1666august1–6,2021.©2021associationforcomputationallinguistics1654words or phrases from another are embedded andits scope of application is a clause.
thus, it wouldnot apply to the alternational english-afrikaansc-s in example (3) as each clause is in a separatelanguage (dulm, 2007)..3. i love horlicks maar hier´s niks.
‘i love horlicks but there’s nothing there ’.
although it dominates computational approachesto c-s, the mlf is contested on empirical and the-oretical grounds.
the consistent identiﬁcation of amatrix language is not always possible, the criteriafor deﬁning it are ambiguous, and its scope is lim-ited (meakins, 2012; bhat et al., 2016; adamou,2016; macswan, 2000; auer and muhamedova,2005).
bullock et al.
(2018) computationally showthat different ways of determining the matrix lan-guage only reliably converge over sentences withsimple insertions as in example (2)..for many linguists, the mlf is not the onlyway, or even an adequate way, to theorize c-s. theequivalence constraint (poplack, 1980) capturesthe fact that c-s tends to occur at points where thelinear structures of the contributing languages co-incide, as when the languages involved share wordorder.
other syntactic theories are built on the dif-ferences between lexical and functional elements,including the government constraint (disciulloet al., 1986) and the functional head constraint(belazi et al., 1994).
incorporating the latter innlp experiments has been shown to improve theaccuracy of computational and speech models (liand fung, 2014; bhat et al., 2016).
functional el-ements include negative particles and auxiliaries,which are respectively classiﬁed as adverbs andverbs (lexical classes), in some nlp tag sets (al-ghamdi et al., 2016).
this means that nlp exper-iments often use annotations that are too coarseto be linguistically informative with regard to c-s.constraint-free theories (mahootian and santorini,1996; macswan, 2000) hold that nothing restrictsswitching apart from the grammatical requirementsof the contributing languages.
testing such theo-ries in nlp experiments would require syntacti-cally parsed corpora that are rare for mixed lan-guage data (partanen et al., 2018).
in sum, workingtogether, theoretical and computational linguistscould create better tools for processing c-s thanthose currently available..3 why do speakers code-switch?.
in addition to focusing on the linguistic aspects andconstraints on c-s, linguists are also interested inthe social and cognitive motivations for switchingacross languages.
what a (multilingual) speakeris trying to achieve by switching languages canaffect its structural outcome.
linguists recognizethat pragmatic, interactional, and socio-indexicalfunctions may condition c-s patterns.
for in-stance, mysl´ın and levy (2015) demonstrate thatczech-english speakers switch to english for high-information content words in prominent prosodicpositions when speaking czech.
other uses of c-swith structural traces include signalling an in-groupidentity through backﬂagging (muysken, 1995) oremblematic tag-switching (poplack, 1980).
theseare words or phrases that are used at the edge ofclauses (e.g., spanish ojal´a or english so).
otherfunctions, among these, quoting a speaker, gettingthe attention of an interlocutor, or reiterating anutterance to soften or intensify a message will alsobe indicated via c-s in predictable linguistic con-structions, such as with verbs of ‘saying’, vocativeexpressions, and sequential translation equivalents(gumperz, 1982; zentella, 1997)..according to clyne (1991), there are eight fac-tors (e.g.
topic, type of interaction, interlocutors,role relationship, communication channel) that caninﬂuence c-s choices.
lavric (2007) explains c-s choices in line with politeness theory, focusingon prestige and face-saving moves in multilingualconversations.
heller (1992) takes a macro-socialview, arguing that french-english c-s in quebecmay signal a political choice among both dominantand subordinate groups..gardner-chloros and edwards (2004) suggestthat social factors inﬂuence language choice, withdifferent generations of speakers from the samecommunity exhibiting very different c-s patterns.
similarly sebba (1998) argues that as speakers cog-nitively construct equivalence between morphemes,words, and phrases across their languages, commu-nities of the same languages may do this differently.
evidence from computational studies suggests thatc-s is speaker-dependent (vu et al., 2013).
genderand identity also play a role for c-s practices inenglish and greek cypriot community in london(finnis, 2014).
from a computational perspective,papalexakis et al.
(2014) investigated the factorsthat inﬂuence c-s choices (turkish-dutch) in com-puter mediated interaction and how to predict them.
1655automatically..4 code-switching, borrowing, transfer,.
loan translation.
while c-s implies active alternation between gram-matical systems, borrowing does not.
it is difﬁcultto know if a lone word insertion (e.g.
example (2))constitutes a borrowing or a c-s without consider-ing how the items are integrated into the grammarof the receiving language (poplack et al., 1988).
when such analyses are done, most lone-item inser-tions are analyzable as one-time borrowings, callednonce borrowings (sankoff et al., 1990).
similarly,what looks like complex c-s may not be perceivedas switching at all.
auer (1999) distinguishes acontinuum of mixing types: prototypical c-s ispragmatic and intentional, language mixing servesno pragmatic purpose, and mixed languages arethe single code of a community.
these can lookstructurally identical, but the latter can be modeledas a single language (e.g.
languages like michifcree (bakker, 1997) or gurinji kriol (meakins,2012)) rather than the intertwining of two.
bila-niuk (2004) describes the surzhyk spoken by urbanrussian-ukrainian bilinguals (in ukraine) as ‘be-tween c-s and mixed language’ since speakersare highly bilingual and the direction of switchingis indeterminate..loan translation and transfer involve the wordsfrom only one language but the semantics and gram-matical constructions from the other.
in example4, the turkish verb yapmak,‘ to do’, takes on thedutch meaning of doen in turkish spoken in thenetherlands (do˘gru¨oz and backus, 2009)..4.
˙ilkokul-u ˙istanbul-da yap-tı-m..primary.school-acc ˙istanbul-loc do-past-1sg.
‘i ﬁnished primary school in istanbul.’.
in transfer, grammatical constructions can beborrowed from one language to another withoutthe words being borrowed.
treffers-daller (2012)demonstrates the transfer of verb particles fromin brusselsgermanic languages into french.
french (belgium), the construction chercher apr`es‘look after’ (for ‘look for’) is a translation of thedutch equivalent and, in ontario french (canada),chercher pour is the translation equivalent of en-glish ‘look for’.
in reference french (france), thereis normally no particle following the verb.
the.
degree to which linguistic features like loan trans-lation and transfer can be found alongside c-s isunknown..5 c-s across languages: european.
context.
the contexts in which people acquire and use multi-ple languages in europe are diverse.
some acquiretheir languages simultaneously from birth, whileothers acquire them sequentially, either naturallyor via explicit instruction.
multilingualism is thenorm in many zones where local residents mayspeak different languages to accommodate theirinterlocutors.
speakers who use local dialects orminoritized varieties may also be engaged in c-swhen switching between their variety and a domi-nant one (mills and washington, 2015; blom andgumperz, 1972)..c-s in bilingual language acquisition of chil-dren has been studied across language contact con-texts in europe.
in germany, herkenrath (2012)and pfaff (1999) focused on turkish-german c-sand meisel (1994) on german-french c-s of bilin-gual children.
from a comparative perspective,poeste et al.
(2019) analyzed c-s among bilingual,trilingual, and multilingual children growing up inspain and germany.
in the netherlands, bosmaand blom (2019) focused on c-s among bilingualfrisian-dutch children.
in addition to analyzingc-s in children’s speech, juan-garau and perez-vidal (2001) and lanza (1998) investigated c-sin the interaction patterns between bilingual chil-dren and their parents (i.e.
spanish-catalan andenglish-norwegian respectively)..within an educational setting, kleeman (2012)observed c-s among bilingual (north sami-norwegian) kindergarten children in the north ofnorway.
similarly, jørgensen (1998) and cromdal(2004) report the use of c-s for resolving disputesamong bilingual (turkish-danish) children in den-mark and multilingual (swedish-english and/or anon-scandinavian language) children in swedenrespectively..c-s does not only take place between standardlanguages but between minority languages and di-alects as well.
for example, themistocleous (2013)studied c-s between greek and cypriot greekand deuchar (2006) focused on the c-s betweenwelsh and english in the uk.
berruto (2005) re-ports cases of language mixing between standarditalian and italoromance dialects in italy.
in the.
1656balkans, kyuchukov (2006) analyzed c-s betweenturkish-bulgarian and romani in bulgaria.
c-sbetween dialects and/or standard vs. minority lan-guages in computer mediated interaction was ana-lyzed by siebenhaar (2006) among swiss-germandialects and by robert-tissot and morel (2017)through sms corpora collected across germanic(i.e.
english and german) and romance languages(french, spanish, italian) in switzerland..c-s is commonly observable across immigrantcontexts in europe.
in the uk, georgakopoulouand finnis (2009) described the c-s patterns be-tween english and cypriot greek while issa (2006)focused on the c-s between english and cypriotturkish communities in london.
wei and milroy(1995) analyzed the c-s between english and chi-nese from a conversational analysis point of viewbased on the interactions of bilingual (chinese-english) families in northeastern england.
inaddition, o˙za´nska-ponikwia (2016) investigatedthe polish-english c-s in the uk as well.
c-samong immigrant community members have alsobeen widely studied in germany (e.g.
turkish-german c-s by keim (2008) and c¸ etino˘glu (2017),russian-german c-s by khakimov (2016)).
in thenetherlands, c-s studies include turkish-dutchc-s by backus (2010) and dutch-morroccan c-sby nortier (1990).
in belgium, meeuws and blom-maert (1998) studied the french-lingala-swahilic-s among immigrants of zaire and treffers-daller(1994) studied french-dutch c-s in brussels.
inspain, jieanu (2013) describes the romanian-spanish c-s among the romanian immigrants.
inaddition to the c-s analyses within spoken inter-actions of immigrant communities across europe,there are also studies about c-s within computermediated communication as well.
these studiesinclude greek-german c-s by androutsopoulos(2015) in germany, turkish-dutch c-s by papalex-akis et al.
(2014), papalexakis and do˘gru¨oz (2015)and a comparison of turkish-dutch and moroccan-dutch c-s by dorleijn and nortier (2009) in thenetherlands.
similarly, marley (2011) comparedfrench-arabic c-s within computer mediated in-teraction across moroccan communities in franceand the uk..in addition to daily communication, some lin-guists are also interested in the c-s observed in his-torical documents.
while swain (2002) exploredlatin-greek c-s by cicero (roman statesman),dunkel (2000) analyzed c-s in his communication.
with atticus (roman philosopher who studied inathens) in the roman empire.
argenter (2001) re-ports cases of language mixing within the catalanjewish community (in spain) in the 14th and 15thcenturies and rothman (2011) highlights the c-sbetween italian, slavic and turkish in the historicaldocuments about ottoman-venetian relations.
inswitzerland, volk and clematide (2014) worked ondetecting and annotating c-s patterns in diachronicand multilingual (english, french, german, ital-ian, romansh and swiss german) alpine heritagecorpus..within the media context, martin (1998) inves-tigated english c-s in written french advertising,and onysko (2007) investigated the english c-sin german written media through corpus analyses.
zhiganova (2016) indicates that german speakersperceive c-s into english for advertising purposeswith both positive and negative consequences..similar to humans, institutions and/or organiza-tions could also have multilingual communicationwith their members and/or audience.
for example,wodak et al.
(2012) analyzed the c-s and languagechoice at the institutional level for european unioninstitutions..6 c-s across languages: indian context.
according to the 2011 census (chandramouli,2011), 26% of the population of india is bilin-gual, while 7% is trilingual.
there are 121 ma-jor languages and 1599 other languages in india,out of which 22 (assamese, bangla, bodo, do-gri, gujarati, hindi, kashmiri, kannada, konkani,maithili, malayalam, manipuri, marathi, nepali,oriya, punjabi, tamil, telugu, sanskrit, santali,sindhi, urdu) are scheduled languages with an of-ﬁcial recognition (almost 97% of the populationspeaks one of the scheduled languages).
most ofthe population ( 93%) speak languages from theindo-aryan (hindi, bengali, marathi, urdu, gu-jarati, punjabi, kashmiri, rajasthani, sindhi, as-samese, maithili, odia) and dravidian (kannada,malayalam, telugu, tamil) language families.
thecensus excludes languages with a population lowerthan 10,000 speakers.
given this, it is probablydifﬁcult to ﬁnd monolingual speakers in india con-sidering the linguistic diversity and wide-spreadmultilingualism..kachru (1978) provides one of the early studieson the types and functions of c-s in india with ahistorical understanding of the multilingual context..1657in addition to the mutual inﬂuences and conver-gence of indo-aryan and dravidian languages in-ternally, he mentions persian and english as outsideinﬂuences on indian languages.
similarly, sridhar(1978) provides an excellent comparative overviewabout the functions of c-s in kannada in relationto the perso-arabic vs. english inﬂuences.
ku-mar (1986) gives examples about the formal (e.g.
within nps, pps, vps) and functional (i.e.
socialand stylistic) aspects of hindi-english c-s froma theoretical point of view.
more recently, doley(2013) explains how ﬁsh mongers in a local ﬁshmarket in assam adjust and switch between as-samese, english and local languages strategicallyto sell their products to multilingual clientele.
an-other observation about c-s in daily life comesfrom boro (2020) who provides examples of en-glish, assamese and bodo (another language spo-ken in the assam region) c-s and borrowings.
inaddition to english, portuguese was also in contactwith the local languages as a result colonization insouth india.
for example, kapp (1997) explainsthe portuguese inﬂuence through borrowings indravidian languages (i.e.
kannada and telugu)spoken in india..instead of automatic data collection and meth-ods of analyses, the c-s examples for the above-mentioned studies are (probably) encountered andcollected by the authors themselves in daily life in-teractions over a period of time with limited means.
nowadays, these small sets of data would be re-garded as insigniﬁcant in computational areas ofresearch.
however, ignoring these studies and datacould have serious consequences since crucial in-formation about the social and cultural dynamics ina multilingual setting would also be lost.
for exam-ple, nadkarni (1975) proves this point by explain-ing how social factors inﬂuence the c-s betweensaraswat brahmin dialect of konkani (indo-aryanlanguage) and kannada (dravidian language) inthe south of india.
both languages have been incontact with each other for over four hundred years.
saraswat brahmins are ﬂuent in both konkani andkannada but they do not speak konkani with kan-nada speakers and they also do not c-s betweenkonkani and kannada.
nadkarni (1975) attributesthis preference to the high prestige associated withkonkani within the given social context.
sincekannada (perceived as less prestigious) is widelyspoken in that region, konkani speakers learn andspeak kannada for functional purposes in daily.
life which does not involve c-s. however, it is notcommon for kannada speakers to learn and speakkonkani (nadkarni, 1975)..c-s in india has been investigated through writ-ten media, advertising and ﬁlm industry as well.
si(2011) analyzed hindi-english c-s in the scriptsof seven bollywood movies which were ﬁlmed be-tween 1982 and 2004. her results indicate a changeof direction c-s over the years.
more speciﬁcally,hindi was the dominant language with occasionalswitches to english for the early productions butenglish became the dominant language especiallyfor younger generations in the later productions.
asimilar trend has been observed for bengali moviescripts as well.
through analyzing movie scripts(between 1970s and 2010s), chatterjee (2016) ﬁndsa drastic increase in the use of bilingual verbs (e.g.
renovate koreche “renovation do”) over time andattributes this rise to the increasing popularity ofenglish in indian society.
within the immigrantcontext, gardner-chloros and charles (2007) fo-cused on the types and functions of c-s betweenhindi and english across the tv programs (e.g.
highly scripted vs. loosely scripted programs) of abritish/asian cable channel in the uk.
althoughthey have come across c-s in a variety of tvshows, the least amount of c-s was encounteredin the news broadcasts (i.e.
highly scripted).
ingeneral, they have encountered less c-s on tvbroadcasts in comparison to the natural speech andattribute this factor to the consciousness of tv per-sonalities about pure language use (instead of c-s).
similarly, zipp (2017) analyzed gujarati-englishc-s within a radio show targeting british southasians living in the us and concluded that c-swas part of identity construction among youngsters(group identity).
pratapa and choudhury (2017)perform a quantitative study of 18 recent bolly-wood (hindi) movies and ﬁnd that c-s is used forestablishing identity, social dynamics between char-acters and the socio-cultural context of the movie..from an advertising point of view, kathpaliaand wee ong (2015) analyzed c-s in hinglish(i.e.
hindi, english, urdu, sanskrit according totheir deﬁnition) billboards about the amul brandin india.
after compiling the advertisements onbillboards (1191), they classiﬁed the structuresand functions of c-s. their results indicate moreintrasentential c-s than intersentential ones onthe billboards.
the ad-vertisers used c-s to indicate ﬁgures of speech.
in terms of function,.
1658(e.g.
puns, associations, contradictory associations,word-creation and repetitions) to attract the atten-tion of the target group..mohanty (2006) provides an extended overviewof the multilingual education system in india ex-ploring the types and quality of schools acrossa wide spectrum.
in general, high-cost englishmedium (em) education is valued by upper-classand afﬂuent families.
although low-cost em edu-cation is also available for lower income families,he questions its impact in comparison to educationin the local languages.
sridhar (2002) explainsthat c-s is commonly practiced among studentsin schools across india.
in addition, she ﬁnds itunrealistic to ask the students to separate the twolanguages harshly.
in immigrant contexts, martinet al.
(2006) investigates how gujarati-english c-sis used among the south asian students in educa-tional settings in the uk.
another analysis revealsa shift from bengali toward english among theyounger generations of the immigrant bengali com-munity in the uk (al-azami, 2006).
in terms of thec-s patterns, ﬁrst generation immigrants integrateenglish words while speaking bengali whereas en-glish dominates the conversations of younger gen-erations with occasional switches to bengali.
thereare also studies about bengali-english c-s in theuk school settings (pagett, 2006) and bangladesh(obaidullah, 2016) as well.
however, a systematiccomparison between bengali-english c-s in india,bangladesh and immigrant settings are lacking..in their study about aphasic patients, shya-mala chengappa and bhat (2004) report increasedfrequency of c-s between malayalam and englishfor aphasic patients in comparison to the controlgroup.
however, there were less differences be-tween the groups in terms of functions of c-s.deepa and shyamala (2019) ﬁnd that amount andtypes of c-s could be used to differentiate betweenhealthy and mild dementia patients who are bilin-gual in kannada and english.
although both stud-ies are carried out with limited subjects, they offerinsights about the use of c-s in health settings aswell..7 computational approaches to c-s.there has been signiﬁcant interest in building lan-guage technologies for code-switched languagesover the last few years, spanning a diverse rangeof tasks such as language identiﬁcation, partof speech tagging, sentiment analysis and au-.
tomatic speech recognition.
in the europeanlanguage context, work has mainly focused onturkish-dutch, frisian-dutch, turkish-germanand ukranian-russian with some initial attemptsinbeing made in parsing russian-komi text.
the indian language context, hindi-english is themost widely studied language pair for compu-tational processing, with some recent work ontelugu-english, tamil-english, bengali-englishand gujarati-english.
sitaram et al.
(2019) providea comprehensive survey of research in computa-tional processing of c-s text and speech and joseet al.
(2020) present a list of datasets available forc-s research.
however, despite signiﬁcant efforts,language technologies are not yet capable of pro-cessing c-s as seamlessly as monolingual data.
weidentify three main limitations of the current stateof computational processing of c-s: data, evalua-tion and user-facing applications..7.1 data.
the use of deep neural networks, which requirelarge amounts of labeled and unlabeled trainingdata have become the de facto standard for build-ing speech and nlp systems.
since c-s languagestend to be low resourced, building deep learning-based models is challenging due to the lack of largec-s datasets.
massive multilingual language mod-els (lms) such as multilingual bert (devlin et al.,2019) and xlm-r (conneau et al., 2020) haveshown promise in enabling the coverage of low-resource languages without any labeled data byusing the zero-shot framework.
these lms are typ-ically trained in two phases: a “pre-training” phase,in which unlabeled data from one or multiple lan-guages may be used and a “ﬁne-tuning” phase, inwhich task-speciﬁc labeled data is used to build asystem capable of solving the task..since multilingual lms are trained on multiplelanguages at the same time, it has been suggestedthat these models may be capable of processingc-s text (johnson et al., 2017), with promising re-sults initially reported on pos tagging (pires et al.,2019).
khanuja et al.
(2020) found that multilin-gual bert outperforms older task-speciﬁc modelson c-s tasks, however, the performance on c-sis much worse than the performance on the sametasks in a monolingual setting.
further, these lmsare either trained primarily on monolingual datasetssuch as wikipedia in the case of mbert, or com-.
1659mon crawl 1 in the case of xlm-r. so, they areeither not exposed to c-s data at all during training,or they miss out on several language pairs, typesand functions of c-s that are encountered in dailylife but not available on the web..since massive multilingual lms are now replac-ing traditional models across many nlp applica-tions, it is crucial to consider how they can betrained on c-s data, or made to work for c-s byincorporating other sources of knowledge..7.2 evaluation.
much of speech and nlp research is now driven bystandard benchmarks that evaluate models acrossmultiple tasks and languages.
due to the shortageof standardized datasets for c-s, until recently, theevaluation of c-s models was performed over in-dividual tasks and language pairs.
khanuja et al.
(2020) and aguilar et al.
(2020) proposed the ﬁrstevaluation benchmarks for c-s that span multi-ple tasks in multiple language pairs.
the glue-cos benchmark (khanuja et al., 2020) consists ofthe following c-s tasks in spanish-english andhindi-english: language identiﬁcation (lid), partof speech (pos) tagging, named entity recog-nition (ner), sentiment analysis, question an-swering and natural language inference (nli).
the lince benchmark (aguilar et al., 2020) cov-ers language identiﬁcation, named entity recog-nition, part-of-speech tagging, and sentimentanalysis in four language pairs: spanish-english,nepali-english, hindi-english, and modern stan-dard arabic-egyptian arabic..although these benchmarks are important start-ing points for c-s, it is clear that they do not repre-sent the entire spectrum of c-s, both from the pointof view of potential applications and language pairs.
further, it is important to note that while state-of-the-art models perform well on tasks such as lid,pos tagging and ner, they are only slightly betterthan chance when it comes to harder tasks like nli,showing that current models are not capable of pro-cessing c-s language.
moreover, many of the c-stasks in the benchmarks above consist of annotatedtweets, which only represent a certain type of c-s.due to these limitations, we currently do not havean accurate picture of how well models are able tohandle c-s..1http://www.commoncrawl.org.
7.3 user-facing applications.
although speech and nlp models for c-s havebeen built for various applications, a major lim-itation of the work done so far in computationalprocessing of c-s is the lack of end-to-end user-facing applications that interact directly with usersin multilingual communities.
for example, there isno widely-used spoken dialogue system that can un-derstand as well as produce code-switched speech,although some voice assistants may recognize andproduce c-s in limited scenarios in some locales.
although computational implementations of gram-matical models of c-s exist (bhat et al., 2016), theydo not necessarily generate natural c-s utterancesthat a bilingual speaker would produce (pratapaet al., 2018).
most crucially, current computationalapproaches to c-s language technologies do notusually take into account the linguistic and socialfactors that inﬂuence why and when speakers/userschoose to code-switch..bawa et al.
(2020) conducted a wizard-of-ozstudy using a hindi-english chatbot and found thatnot only did bilingual users prefer chatbots thatcould code-switch, they also showed a preferencetowards bots that mimicked their own c-s patterns.
rudra et al.
(2016) report a study on 430k tweetsfrom hindi-english bilingual users and ﬁnd thathindi is preferred for the expression of negativesentiment.
in a follow-up study, agarwal et al.
(2017) ﬁnd that hindi is the preferred language forswearing in hindi-english c-s tweets, and swear-ing may be a motivating factor for users to switchto hindi.
the study also ﬁnds a gender difference,with women preferring to swear in english moreoften than hindi.
such studies indicate that multi-lingual chatbots and intelligent agents need to beable to adapt to users’ linguistic styles, while alsobeing capable of determining when and how tocode-switch..due to the paucity of user-facing systems andstandard benchmarks covering only a handful ofsimpler nlp tasks, it is likely that we overestimatehow well computational models are able to handlec-s. in sum, language technologies for c-s seemto be constrained by the lack of availability of di-verse c-s training data, evaluation benchmarks andthe absence of user-facing applications.
they needto go beyond pattern recognition and grammaticalconstraints of c-s in order to process and producec-s the way humans do.
hence, it is important forthe cl community to be aware of the vast litera-.
1660ture around c-s in linguistics, particularly as weproceed to solving more challenging tasks..8 conclusion.
the goal of this paper was to inform computa-tional linguists and language technologists aboutthe linguistic and social aspects c-s studies fo-cusing on the european and indian multilingualcontexts.
there are some similarities (e.g.
themesfor linguistic research in c-s) but also differencesbetween the two contexts in terms of the social,cultural and historical characteristics.
for example,c-s in immigrant communities has been a commontheme for both multilingual contexts.
in europe,c-s has been widely studied within the immigrantcommunities who have come through labor immi-gration in the 1960s.
however, there is a needfor more research about the c-s in immigrant lan-guages with a more recent history as well as minor-ity languages and regional dialects.
analyzing c-sin the immigration context is even more complexfor indian languages.
there are hardly any system-atic linguistic comparisons between the c-s withinthe same language pairs in india and immigrantcontexts (e.g.
c-s between hindi-english in indiavs. hindi-english in the us/uk).
there is alsoa need for more research about c-s between lessknown language pairs in india.
however, some ofthese languages are not even ofﬁcially listed (e.g.
in census results) since they have less than 10,000speakers.
in these cases, collecting and analyz-ing the multilingual and c-s data becomes moredifﬁcult..a common ﬂaw that is shared both by linguis-tics and computational areas of research is to focusonly on the positive evidence and assume that c-swill occur in all multilingual contexts.
however,there is also a need for negative evidence to falsifythis assumption.
as illustrated through an examplefrom konkani-kannada language contact in india(see section 6), bilingual speakers may prefer notto c-s due to historical, social and cultural factorsoperating in that setting.
therefore, developingan automatic c-s system for a random pair of lan-guages without an in-depth and systematic analysisof linguistic and social aspects of c-s in a particu-lar context would not be very useful for the targetedusers and/or language technologists..to date, the literature focusing on the social andlinguistic aspects of c-s is less visible for cl re-searchers.
this lack of visibility leads to misunder-.
standings and/or incomplete citations of earlier re-search which would have saved time and resourcesfor cl research if resolved.
one of the reasonsis perhaps the differences in publishing traditionsbetween humanities and computational areas ofresearch.
conference and workshop proceedingsare commonly accepted means of publication incomputational linguistics.
whereas, journal publi-cations, books and/or chapters are the publicationforms in humanities.
however, guidelines abouthow to cite publications in humanities are oftenmissing in computational venues.
there are alsodifferences in terms of length, review cycles andopen access policies between the two ﬁelds whichmay inﬂuence the visibility of research output foreach other.
it is perhaps useful to remember thatscience advances by standing on the shoulders ofgiants (i.e.
building upon earlier research).
withour contribution to the conference, we hope to con-nect the two ﬁelds and start a scientiﬁc dialogue toenhance the advancement in both ﬁelds..references.
evangelia adamou.
2016. a corpus-driven approachto language contact: endangered languages in acomparative perspective, volume 12. walter degruyter gmbh & co kg..prabhat agarwal, ashish sharma,.
jeenu grover,mayank sikka, koustav rudra, and monojit choud-i may talk in english but gaalihury.
2017.toh hindi mein hi denge: a study of english-hindi code-switching and swearing pattern on so-cial networks.
in 2017 9th international conferenceon communication systems and networks (com-snets), pages 554–557.
ieee..gustavo aguilar, sudipta kar, and thamar solorio.
2020. lince: a centralized benchmark for linguis-in proceedings oftic code-switching evaluation.
the 12th language resources and evaluation con-ference, pages 1803–1813..salman al-azami.
2006. linguistic manipulations inthe bengali language by the bangladeshis in manch-ester.
south asian cultural studies, 1(1):53–59..fahad alghamdi, giovanni molina, mona diab,thamar solorio, abdelati hawwari, victor soto, andjulia hirschberg.
2016. part of speech tagging forcode switched data.
proceedings of the secondworkshop on computational approaches to code-switching..jannis androutsopoulos.
2015. networked multilin-gualism: some language practices on facebook andinternational journal of bilin-their implications.
gualism, 19:185–205..1661joan a. argenter.
2001. code-switching and dialo-gism: verbal practices in among catalan jews in themiddle ages.
language in society, 30:377–402..to dutch.
23:1431–1447..international journal of bilingualism,.
peter auer.
1999. from codeswitching via languagemixing to fused lects: toward a dynamic typologyinternational journal of bilin-of bilingual speech.
gualism, 3(4):309–332..peter auer and raihan muhamedova.
2005. embed-ded language’and ‘matrix language’in insertionallanguage mixing: some problematic cases.
rivistadi linguistica, 17(1):35–54..ad backus.
2010. the role of codeswitching, loantranslation and interference in the emergence of animmigrant variety of turkish.
working papers incorpus-based linguistics and language education,5:225–241..peter bakker.
1997. a language of our own: the gene-sis of michif, the mixed cree-french language of thecanadian m´etis.
oxford university press..anshul bawa, pranav khadpe, pratik joshi, kalikabali, and monojit choudhury.
2020. do multilin-gual users prefer chat-bots that code-mix?
let’snudge and ﬁnd out!
proceedings of the acm onhuman-computer interaction, 4(cscw1):1–23..hedi m. belazi, edward j rubin, and almeida jacque-line toribio.
1994. code switching and x-bar theory:the functional head constraint.
linguistic inquiry,pages 221–237..gaetano berruto.
2005. dialect/standard convergence,mixing, and models of language contact: the caseof italy.
in peter auer, franz hinskens, and paulkerswill, editors, dialect change: convergence anddivergence in european languages, pages 81–95.
cambridge university press, cambridge..gayatri bhat, monojit choudhury, and kalika bali.
2016. grammatical constraints on intra-sententialcode-switching: from theories to working models.
arxiv preprint arxiv:1612.04538..laada bilaniuk.
2004. a typology of surzhyk: mixedukrainian-russian language.
international journalof bilingualism, 8(4):409–425..jan-petter blom and john gumperz.
1972..socialmeaning in linguistic structures: code switching innorthern norway.
in john gumperz and del hymes,editors, directions in sociolinguistics: the ethnog-raphy of communication.
holt, rinehart and win-ston, new york..jupitara boro.
2020. borrowing or code-switching:some observations in bodo.
language in india,20(7):87–94..evelyn bosma and elma blom.
2019..a code-switching asymmetry in bilingual children: code-switching from dutch to frisian requires morecognitive control than code-switching from frisian.
barbara bullock, wally guzm´an, jacqueline serigos,vivek sharath, and almeida jacqueline toribio.
2018.predicting the presence of a matrix lan-guage in code-switching.
in proceedings of the thirdworkshop on computational approaches to linguisticcode-switching, pages 68–75..¨ozlem c¸ etino˘glu.
2017. a code-switching corpus ofin proceedings ofturkish-german conversations.
the 11th linguistic annotation workshop, pages 34–40, valencia, spain.
association for computationallinguistics..c chandramouli.
2011. census of india 2011. provi-sional population totals, ofﬁce of registrar generaland census commissioner, new delhi: governmentof india, pages 409–413..tridha chatterjee.
2016. structural changes in bengali-english bilingual verbs through the exploration ofbengali ﬁlms.
languages, 1(5):2–17..michael clyne.
1991. community languages: theaustralian experience.
cambridge university press,cambridge..alexis conneau, kartikay khandelwal, naman goyal,vishrav chaudhary, guillaume wenzek, franciscoguzm´an, ´edouard grave, myle ott, luke zettle-moyer, and veselin stoyanov.
2020. unsupervisedincross-lingual representation learning at scale.
proceedings of the 58th annual meeting of the asso-ciation for computational linguistics, pages 8440–8451..jakob cromdal.
2004. building bilingual oppositions:code-switching in children’s disputes.
language insociety, 33:33–58..m.s.
deepa and k.c.
shyamala.
2019. analysis ofverb expressions in the conversational speech ofkannada-english speaking bilingual persons withmild dementia.
studies in linguistics and literature,3:182–194..margaret deuchar.
2006..welsh-english code-switching and the matrix language frame model.
lingua, 116:1986–2011..jacob devlin, ming-wei chang, kenton lee, andkristina toutanova.
2019. bert: pre-training ofdeep bidirectional transformers for language under-standing.
in proceedings of the 2019 conference ofthe north american chapter of the association forcomputational linguistics: human language tech-nologies, volume 1 (long and short papers), pages4171–4186..anne-marie disciullo, pieter muysken, and rajendrasingh.
1986. code-mixing and government.
jour-nal of linguistics, 22(1):1–24..1662rajeev k. doley.
2013. code-switching at the marketplace: the trader’s tool.
asian journal of socialsciences and humanities, 2(2):483–489..margreet dorleijn and jacomine nortier.
2009.codeswitching and the internet.
in barbara bullockeditors, theand almeida jacqueline toribio,cambridge handbook of linguistic code-switching,pages 127–141.
cambridge university press,cambridge..a. seza do˘gru¨oz and ad backus.
2009..innova-tive constructions in dutch turkish: an assessmentof on-going contact-induced change.
bilingualism:language and cognition, 12(1):41–63..ondene van dulm.
2007. the grammar of english-afrikaans code switching: a feature checking ac-count.
thesis, radboud universiteit, ni-jmegen..ph.d..george e. dunkel.
2000. remarks on code-switchingin cicero’s letters to atticus.
museum helveticum,57:122–129..katerina a. finnis.
2014. variation within a greek-cypriot community of practice in london: code-switching, gender, and identity.
language in soci-ety, 43:287–310..penelope gardner-chloros and reeva charles.
2007.subiko welcome (welcome to everyone) hindi-english code-switching in the british-asian media.
bisal, 2:89–122..melvin johnson, mike schuster, quoc v le, maximkrikun, yonghui wu, zhifeng chen, nikhil thorat,fernanda vi´egas, martin wattenberg, greg corrado,et al.
2017. google’s multilingual neural machinetranslation system: enabling zero-shot translation.
transactions of the association for computationallinguistics, 5:339–351..navya jose, bharathi raja chakravarthi, shardulsuryawanshi, elizabeth sherly, and john p mc-crae.
2020. a survey of current datasets for code-switching research.
in 2020 6th international con-ference on advanced computing and communica-tion systems (icaccs), pages 136–141.
ieee..aravind joshi.
1982. processing of sentences within coling 1982:intra-sentential code-switching.
proceedings of the ninth international conferenceon computational linguistics..maria juan-garau and carmen perez-vidal.
2001.mixing and pragmatic parental strategies in earlybilingual acquisition.
journal of child language,28:59–86..normann j. jørgensen.
1998. children’s acquisition ofcode-switching for power-wielding.
in peter auer,editor, code-switching in conversation: language,interaction and identity, pages 97–113.
routledge,london..braj b. kachru.
1978..toward structuring code-mixing: an indian perspective.
international jour-nal of the sociology of language, 1978(16):27–46..penelope gardner-chloros and malcolm edwards.
2004. assumptions behind grammatical approachesto code-switching: when the blueprint is a redherring.
transactions of the philological society,102:103–129..dieter b. kapp.
1997. dravidian borrowings fromportuegese (kannada and telugu).
in charles j.borges and helmut feldmann, editors, goa and por-tugal: their cultural links, pages 280–301.
ashokkumar mottar, new delhi..alexandra georgakopoulou and katerina finnis.
2009.code-switching in site for fantasizing identities acase study of conventional uses of london greekcypriot.
pragmatics, 19:467–488..birsel karakoc¸ and annette herkenrath.
2019. re-ceptive multilingualism in an immigrant constella-tion: examples from turkish–german children’slanguage.
turkic languages, 23:81–122..john j. gumperz.
1982. discourse strategies, vol-.
ume 1. cambridge university press..monica heller.
1992. the politics of codeswitchingand language choice.
in carol eastman, editor,codeswitching, pages 108–118.
multilingual mat-ters, clevendon..annette herkenrath.
2012. receptive multilingual-ism in an immigrant constellation: examples fromturkish–german children’s language.
internationaljournal of bilingualism, 16:287–314..t¨oz¨un issa.
2006. an ethnographic case study of codeswitching and language choice: the uses of cypriotturkish in london.
international journal of sociol-ogy of language, 181:1–9..ioana jieanu.
2013. aspects of code-switching con-cerning spanish-romanian virtual communication.
journal for foreign languages, 5:21–33..sujata s. kathpalia and kenneth keng wee ong.
2015.the use of code-mixing in indian billboard advertis-ing.
world englishes, 34(4):557–575..inken keim.
2008..die t¨urkischen powergirls”- lebenswelt und kommunikativer stil einer mi-grantinnengruppe in mannheim.
narr, tubingen..nikolay khakimov.
2016. effects of frequency andword repetition on switch placement: evidence fromrussian-german code-mixing.
in justyina robin-son and monica heller, editors, cognitive perspec-tives on bilingualism, pages 91–125.
de gruyter,berlin, boston..simran khanuja, sandipan dandapat, anirudh srini-vasan, sunayana sitaram, and monojit choudhury.
2020. gluecos: an evaluation benchmark for code-in proceedings of the 58th annualswitched nlp.
meeting of the association for computational lin-guistics, pages 3575–3585..1663carola kleeman.
2012. play in two languages.
lan-guage alternation and code-switching role-play innorth s´ami and norwegian.
nordlyd, 39:47–69..ashok kumar.
1986. certain aspects of the form andfunctions of hindi-english code-switching.
anthro-pological linguistics, 28(2):195–205..hristo kyuchukov.
2006. code-switching among mus-lim romas in bulgaria.
international journal of so-ciology of language, 179:41–51..elizabeth lanza.
1998. raising children bilingually innorway.
international journal of sociology of lan-guage, 133:73–88..eva lavric.
2007. code choice and face.
lodz papers.
in pragmatics, 3:23–35..ying li and pascale fung.
2014. language modelingwith functional head constraint for code switchingspeech recognition.
in proceedings of the 2014 con-ference on empirical methods in natural languageprocessing (emnlp), pages 907–916..jeff macswan.
2000. the architecture of the bilin-gual language faculty: evidence from codeswitch-ing.
bilingualism: language and cognition, 3:37–54..shahrzad mahootian and beatrice santorini.
1996.code switching and the complement/adjunct distinc-tion.
linguistic inquiry, pages 464–479..dawn marley.
2011. code-switching in websites forthe moroccan diaspora.
in foued laroussi, editor,code-switching, languages in contact and elec-tronic writings.
peter lang, frankfurt..elizabeth martin.
1998. the use of english in writ-ten french advertising: a study of code-switching,code-mixing and borrowing in a commercial context.
studies in linguistic sciences, 28:159–184..peter martin, arvind bhatt, nirmala bhojani, and an-gela creese.
2006. managing bilingual interactionin a gujarati complementary school in leicester.
language and education, 20(1):5–22..felicity meakins.
2012. which mix—code-switchingor a mixed language?
gurindji kriol.
journal ofpidgin and creole languages, 27(1):105–140..michael meeuws and jan blommaert.
1998..amonolectal view of code-switching: layered code-in peterswitching among zairians in belgium.
auer, editor, code-switching in conversation: lan-guage, interaction and identity, pages 76–101.
rout-ledge, new york..jurgen meisel.
1994. children: the acquisition ofstudies in second lan-.
grammatical constraints.
guage acquisition, 16:413–419..monique t. mills and julie a. washington.
2015. man-aging two varieties: code-switching in the educa-tional context.
in lisa j.green jennifer bloomquistand sonja l. lanehart, editors, oxford handbook ofafrican american language, pages 566–581.
oxforduniversity press new york, new york..ajit k. mohanty.
2006. multilingualism of the un-equals and predicaments of education in india:mother tongue or other tongue?
: languages in ed-in ofelia garc´ıa, toveucation and glocalization.
skutnabb-kangas, and mar´ıa e. torres-guzm´an, ed-itors, imagining multilingual schools: languages ineducation and glocalization, pages 262–279.
multi-lingual matters, bristol..pieter muysken.
1995. code-switching and grammat-ical theory.
in lesley milroy and pieter muysken,editors, one speaker, two languages: cross-disciplinary perspectives on code-switching, pages177–98.
cambridge university press, cambridge..carol myers-scotton.
1997..duelling languages:grammatical structure in codeswitching.
oxforduniversity press..mark mysl´ın and roger levy.
2015. code-switchingand predictability of meaning in discourse.
lan-guage, 91(4):871–905..mangesh v. nadkarni.
1975. bilingualism and syntac-tic change in konkani.
language, 51(3):672–683..jacomine nortier.
1990..dutch-moroccan codeswitching among moroccans in the netherlands.
foris publications, dordrecht..md.
obaidullah.
2016. code switching in efl class-rooms: a bangladeshi perspective.
theory andpractice in language studies, 6(5):924–934..alexander onysko.
2007..anglicism in german:borrowing, lexical productivity and written code-switching.
walter de gruyter, berlin, new york..katarzyna o˙za´nska-ponikwia.
2016. code-switchingpractices among immigrant polish l2 users of en-glish.
theory and practice of second language ac-quisition, 1:87–102..linda pagett.
2006. mum and dad prefer me tospeak bengali at home: code switching and paral-lel speech in a primary school setting.
literacy, 40..evangelos e. papalexakis and a. seza do˘gru¨oz.
2015.understanding multilingual social networks in on-line immigrant communities.
in www’15 compan-ion: proceedings of the 24th international confer-ence on world wide web, pages 865–870.
associa-tion for computational linguistics..evangelos e. papalexakis, dong nguyen, and a. sezado˘gru¨oz.
2014. predicting code-switching in multi-lingual communication for immigrant communities.
in proceedings of the first workshop on computa-tional approaches to code switching, pages 42–50.
association for computational linguistics..1664niko partanen, kyungtae lim, michael rießler, andthierry poibeau.
2018. dependency parsing ofcode-switching data with cross-lingual feature repre-sentations.
in international workshop on computa-tional linguistics for uralic languages, pages 1–17.
acl..carol w. pfaff.
1999. changing patterns of languagemixing in a bilingual child.
in guus extra andludo verhoeven, editors, bilingualism and migra-tion, page 97–121.
mouton de gruyter, berlin..telmo pires, eva schlinger, and dan garrette.
2019.in pro-how multilingual is multilingual bert?
ceedings of the 57th annual meeting of the asso-ciation for computational linguistics, pages 4996–5001..mark sebba.
1998. a congruence approach to the syn-tax of codeswitching.
international journal of bilin-gualism, 2(1):1–19..krupa elizabeth daniel shyamala chengappa andsapna bhat.
2004. language mixing and switchingin malayalam-english bilingual aphasics.
asia pa-ciﬁc disability rehabilitation journal, 15:68–76..aung si.
2011..a diachronic investigation ofhindi-english code-switching, using bollywoodﬁlm scripts.
international journal of bilingualism,15(4):388–407..beat siebenhaar.
2006..code choice and code-switching in swiss-german internet relay chatrooms.
journal of sociolinguistics, 10:481–506..meike poeste, natascha m¨uller, and laia arnaus gil.
2019. code-mixing and language dominance: bilin-gual, trilingual and multilingual children compared.
international journal of bilingualism, 16:459–491..sunayana sitaram, khyathi raghavi chandu, sai kr-ishna rallabandi, and alan w black.
2019. a sur-vey of code-switched speech and language process-ing.
arxiv preprint arxiv:1904.00784..shana poplack.
1980. sometimes i’ll start a sentencein spanish y termino en espanol: toward a typologyof code-switching.
linguistics, 18:233–234..shana poplack, david sankoff, and christopher miller.
1988. the social correlates and linguistic processesof lexical borrowing and assimilation.
linguistics,26:47–104..adithya pratapa, gayatri bhat, monojit choudhury,sunayana sitaram, sandipan dandapat, and kalikabali.
2018. language modeling for code-mixing:the role of linguistic theory based synthetic data.
inproceedings of the 56th annual meeting of the as-sociation for computational linguistics (volume 1:long papers), pages 1543–1553..adithya pratapa and monojit choudhury.
2017. quan-titative characterization of code switching patternsin complex multi-party conversations: a case studyon hindi movie scripts.
in proceedings of the 14thinternational conference on natural language pro-cessing (icon-2017), pages 75–84..aur´elia robert-tissot and etienne morel.
2017. therole of functional heads in code-switching evidencefrom swiss text messages.
languages, 2:282–297..e. natalie rothman.
2011..conversion and con-vergence in the venetian-ottoman borderlands.
journal of medieval and early modern studies,41:601–633..koustav rudra, shruti rijhwani, raﬁya begum, ka-lika bali, monojit choudhury, and niloy ganguly.
2016. understanding language preference for ex-pression of opinion and sentiment: what do hindi-english speakers do on twitter?
in proceedings ofthe 2016 conference on empirical methods in naturallanguage processing, pages 1131–1141..david sankoff, shana poplack, and swathi vanniara-jan. 1990. the case of the nonce loan in tamil.
lan-guage variation and change, 2(1):71–101..thamar solorio and yang liu.
2008. part-of-speechtagging for english-spanish code-switched text.
inproceedings of the 2008 conference on empiricalmethods in natural language processing, pages1051–1060..kamal sridhar.
2002. societal multilingualism, worldindian.
englishes: their implications for tesol.
journal of applied linguistics, 28(2):83–100..s. n. sridhar.
1978. on the functions of code-mixingin kannada.
international journal of the sociologyof language, 1978(16):109–118..simon swain.
2002. bilingualism in cicero?
evidenceof code-switching.
in james noel adams, markjanse, and simon swain, editors, bilingualism in an-cient society: language contact and written text,pages 128–168.
oxford university press, new york..christiana themistocleous.
2013..digital code-switching between cypriot and standard greek: per-internationalformance and identity play online.
journal of bilingualism, 19:282–297..jeanine treffers-daller.
1994. mixing two languages:french-dutch contact in a comparative perspective.
mouton de gruyter, berlin..jeanine treffers-daller.
2012. grammatical colloca-tions and verb-particle constructions in brusselsfrench: a corpus-linguistic approach to transfer.
in-ternational journal of bilingualism, 16(1):53–82..martin volk and simon clematide.
2014. detectingcode-switching in a multilingual alpine heritagecorpus.
proceedings of the first workshop on com-putational approaches to code switching..ngoc thang vu, heike adel, and tanja schultz.
2013.an investigation of code-switching attitude depen-in international confer-dent language modeling.
ence on statistical language and speech processing,pages 297–308.
springer..1665li wei and lesley milroy.
1995. conversational code-switching in a chinese community in britain: a se-quential analysis.
journal of pragmatics, 23..ruth wodak, michał krzy˙zanowski, and bernhardforchtner.
2012. the interplay of language ideolo-gies and contextual cues in multilingual interactions:language choice and code-switching in europeanunion institutions.
language in society, 41:157–186..ana celia zentella.
1997. growing up bilingual :puerto rican children in new york.
blackwell,malden, ma..anna zhiganova.
2016. the study of the perceptionof code-switching to english in german advertising.
procedia: social and behavioral sciences, 236:225–229..lena zipp.
2017. code-switching in the media: iden-tity negotiations in a gujarati diaspora radio pro-gram.
international journal of the sociology of lan-guage, 2017(247):33 – 48..1666