measuring conversational uptake:a case study on student-teacher interactions.
dorottya demszky1.
jing liu2 zid mancenido3.
julie cohen4.
heather hill3 dan jurafsky1 tatsunori hashimoto11stanford university 2university of maryland 3harvard university 4university of virginia{ddemszky, thashim}@stanford.edu.
abstract.
in conversation, uptake happens when aspeaker builds on the contribution of their in-terlocutor by, for example, acknowledging, re-peating or reformulating what they have said.
in education, teachers’ uptake of student con-tributions has been linked to higher studentachievement.
yet measuring and improvingteachers’ uptake at scale is challenging, as ex-isting methods require expensive annotationby experts.
we propose a framework for com-putationally measuring uptake, by (1) releas-ing a dataset of student-teacher exchanges ex-tracted from us math classroom transcriptsannotated for uptake by experts; (2) formal-izing uptake as pointwise jensen-shannon di-vergence (pjsd), estimated via next utteranceclassiﬁcation; (3) conducting a linguistically-motivated comparison of different unsuper-vised measures and (4) correlating these mea-sures with educational outcomes.
we ﬁndthat although repetition captures a signiﬁcantpart of uptake, pjsd outperforms repetition-based baselines, as it is capable of identifyinga wider range of uptake phenomena like ques-tion answering and reformulation.
we applyour uptake measure to three different educa-tional datasets with outcome indicators.
un-like baseline measures, pjsd correlates signiﬁ-cantly with instruction quality in all three, pro-viding evidence for its generalizability and forits potential to serve as an automated profes-sional development tool for teachers.1.
1.introduction.
building on the interlocutor’s contribution via, forexample, acknowledgment, repetition or elabora-tion (figure 1), is known as uptake and is key toa successful conversation.
uptake makes an inter-locutor feel heard and fosters a collaborative inter-action (collins, 1982; clark and schaefer, 1989),.
1code and annotated data: https://github.com/.
ddemszky/conversational-uptake.
figure 1: example student utterance s and possibleteacher replies t, illustrating different uptake strategies..which is especially important in contexts like edu-cation.
teachers’ uptake of student ideas promotesdialogic instruction by amplifying student voicesand giving them agency in the learning process, un-like monologic instruction where teachers lectureat students (bakhtin, 1981; wells, 1999; nystrandet al., 1997).
despite extensive research showingthe positive impact of uptake on student learningand achievement (brophy, 1984; o’connor andmichaels, 1993; nystrand et al., 2003), measuringand improving teachers’ uptake at scale is challeng-ing as existing methods require manual annotationby experts and are prohibitively resource-intensive.
we introduce a framework for computationallymeasuring uptake.
first, we create and releasea dataset of 2246 student-teacher exchanges ex-tracted from us elementary math classroom tran-scripts, each annotated by three domain experts forteachers’ uptake of student contributions..we take an unsupervised approach to measureuptake in order to encourage domain-transferabilityand account for the fact that large amounts of la-beled data are not possible in many contexts dueto data privacy reasons and/or limited resources..proceedingsofthe59thannualmeetingoftheassociationforcomputationallinguisticsandthe11thinternationaljointconferenceonnaturallanguageprocessing,pages1638–1653august1–6,2021.©2021associationforcomputationallinguistics1638i added 30 to 70…okay.good, you did the ﬁrst step.okay, you added 30 to 70.and you got what?acknowledgmentcollaborative completiont1t2t3t4repetitionreformulationswhere did the 70 come from?t5elaborationwe conduct a careful analysis of the role of repeti-tion in uptake by measuring utterance overlap andsimilarity.
we ﬁnd that the proportion of studentwords repeated by the teacher (%-in-t) capturesa large part of uptake, and that surprisingly, word-level similarity measures consistently outperformsentence-level similarity measures, including onesinvolving sophisticated neural models..to capture uptake phenomena beyond repetitionand in particular those relevant to teaching (e.g.
question answering), we formalize uptake as ameasure of the reply’s dependence on the sourceutterance.
we quantify dependence via pointwisejensen-shannon divergence (pjsd), which cap-tures how easily someone (e.g., a student) candistinguish the true reply from randomly sampledreplies.
we show that pjsd can be estimated viacross-entropy loss obtained from next utteranceclassiﬁcation (nuc)..we train a model by ﬁne-tuning bert-base(devlin et al., 2019) via nuc on a large, combineddataset of student-teacher interactions and switch-board (godfrey and holliman, 1997).
we show thatscores obtained from this model signiﬁcantly out-perform our baseline measures.
using dialog actannotations on switchboard, we demonstrate thatpjsd is indeed better at capturing phenomena suchas reformulation, question answering and collabora-tive completion than %-in-t, our best-performingbaseline.
our manual analysis also shows qualita-tive differences between the models: the exampleswhere pjsd outperforms %-in-t are enriched byteacher prompts for elaboration, an exemplar fordialogic instruction (nystrand et al., 1997)..finally, we ﬁnd that our pjsd measure showsa signiﬁcant linear correlation with outcomessuch as student satisfaction and instruction qualityacross three different datasets of student-teacherinteractions: the ncte dataset (kane et al., 2015),a one-on-one online tutoring dataset, and thesimteacher dataset (cohen et al., 2020).
theseresults provide evidence for the generalizability ofour pjsd measure and for its potential to serve asan automated tool to give feedback to teachers..2 background on uptake.
uptake has several linguistic and social func-tions.
(1) it creates coherence between two utter-ances, helping structure the discourse (halliday andhasan, 1976; grosz et al., 1977; hobbs, 1979).
(2)it is a mechanism for grounding, i.e.
demonstrat-.
ing understanding of the interlocutor’s contribu-tion by accepting it as part of the common ground(shared set of beliefs among interlocutors) (clarkand schaefer, 1989).
(3) it promotes collaborationwith the interlocutor by sharing the ﬂoor with themand indicating what they have said is important(bakhtin, 1981; nystrand et al., 1997)..there are multiple linguistic strategies for up-take, such as acknowledgment, collaborative com-pletion, repetition, and question answering — seefigure 1 for a non-exhaustive list.
a speaker canuse multiple strategies at the same time, for exam-ple, t3 in figure 1 includes both acknowledgmentand repetition.
different strategies can representlower or higher uptake depending on how effec-tively they achieve the aforementioned functionsof uptake.
for example, tannen (1987) arguesthat repetition is a highly pervasive and effectivestrategy for ratifying listenership and building acoherent discourse.
in education, high uptake hasbeen deﬁned as cases where the teacher followsup on the student’s contribution via a question orelaboration (collins, 1982; nystrand et al., 1997).
we build on this literature from discourse analy-sis and education to build our dataset, to developour uptake measure and to compare the ability ofdifferent measures to capture key uptake strategies..3 a new educational uptake dataset.
despite the substantial literature on the functionsof uptake, we are not aware of a publicly availabledataset labeled for this phenomenon.
to addressthis, we recruit domain experts (math teachers andraters trained in classroom observation) to anno-tate a dataset of exchanges between students andteachers.
the exchanges are sampled from tran-scripts of 45-60 minute long 4th and 5th gradeelementary math classroom observations collectedby the national center for teacher effectiveness(ncte) between 2010-2013 (kane et al., 2015).
the transcripts represent data from 317 teachersacross 4 school districts in new england that servelargely low-income, historically marginalized stu-dents.
transcripts are fully anonymized: studentand teacher names are replaced with terms like“student”, “teacher” or “mrs.
h”.2.
2parents and teachers gave consent for the study (harvardirb #17768), and for de-identiﬁed data to be retained andused in future research.
the transcripts were anonymized atthe time they were created..1639preparing utterance pairs.
we prepare adataset of utterance pairs (s, t ), where s is a stu-dent utterance and t is a subsequent teacher utter-ance.
the concept of uptake presupposes that thereis something to be taken up; in our case that thestudent utterance has substance.
for example, shortstudent utterances like “yes” or “one-third” do notpresent many opportunities for uptake.
based onour pilot annotations, these utterances are difﬁcultfor even expert annotators to label.
therefore, weonly keep utterance pairs where s contains at least5 tokens, excluding punctuation.
we also removeall utterance pairs where the utterances contain an[inaudible] marker, indicating low audio quality.
out of the remaining 55k (s, t ) pairs, we sample2246 for annotation.3.
annotation.
given that uptake is a subjectiveand heterogeneous construct, we relied heavily ondomain-expertise and took several other quality as-surance steps for the annotation.
as a result, theannotation took six months to develop and com-plete, longer than most other annotations in nlpfor a similar data size (∼2k examples)..our annotation framework for uptake is designedby experts in math quality instruction, includingour collaborators, math teachers and raters for themathematical quality instruction (mqi) codinginstrument, used to assess math instruction (teach-ing project, 2011).
in the annotation interface,raters can see (1) the utterance pair (s, t ), (2) thelesson topic, which is manually labeled as part ofthe original dataset, and (3) two utterances immedi-ately preceding (s, t ) for context.
annotators areasked to ﬁrst check whether (s, t ) relates to math– e.g.
“can i go to the bathroom?” is unrelated tomath.
if both s and t relate to math, raters areasked to select among three labels: “low”, “mid”and “high”, indicating the degree to which a teacherdemonstrates that they are following what the stu-dent is saying or trying to say.
the annotationframework is included in appendix a..we recruited expert raters (with experience inteaching and classroom observation) whose demo-graphics were representative of us k-12 teacherpopulation.
we followed standard practices in ed-ucation for rater training and calibration.
we con-ducted several pilot annotation rounds (5+ rounds.
3to enable potential analyses on the temporal dynamicsof uptake, we randomly sampled 15 transcripts where weannotate all (s, t ) pairs (constituting 29% of our annotations).
the rest of the pairs are sampled from the remaining data..with a subset of raters, 2 rounds involving all 13raters), quizzes for raters, thorough documentationwith examples, and meetings with all raters.
aftertraining raters, we randomly assign each exampleto three raters..post-processing and rater agreement.
table 1includes a sample of our annotated data.
inter-rateragreement for uptake is spearman ρ = .474 (fleissκ = .2864), measured by (1) excluding exampleswhere at least one rater indicated that the utterancepair does not relate to math5; (2) converting rater’sscores into numbers (“low”: 0, “mid”: 1, “high”:2); (3) z-scoring each rater’s scores; (4) computinga leave-out spearman ρ for each rater by correlatingtheir judgments with the average judgments of theother two raters; and (5) taking the average of theleave-out correlations across raters.
our interrateragreement values comparable to those obtained inwidely-used classroom observation protocols suchas mqi and the classroom assessment scoringsystem (class) (pianta et al., 2008) that includeparallel measures to our uptake construct (see kellyet al.
(2020) for a summary).6 we obtain a singlelabel for each example by averaging the z-scoredjudgments across raters..4 uptake as overlap & similarity.
as we see in table 1, examples labeled for highuptake tend to have overlap between s and t ; thisis expected, since incorporating the previous utter-ance in some form is known to be an important as-pect of uptake (section 2).
therefore, we begin bycarefully analyzing repetition and defer discussionof more complex uptake phenomena to section 5.to accurately quantify repetition-based uptake,we evaluate a range of metrics and surprisingly ﬁndthat word overlap based measures correlate signif-icantly better with uptake annotations than moresophisticated, utterance-level similarity measures.7.
4we prefer to use correlations because kappa has undesir-able properties (see delgado and tibau, 2019) and correlationsare more interpretable and directly comparable to our models’results (see later sections)..5this step is motivated by widely used education observa-tion protocols such as mqi, which also clearly separate on- vsoff-task instruction..6high interrater variability — especially when it comesto ratings of teacher quality — are widely documented bygold standard studies in the ﬁeld of education (see cohen andgoldhaber (2016) for a summary)..7we focus on unsupervised methods that enable scalabil-ity and domain-generalizability; please see appendix b forsupervised baselines..1640example.
uptake.
model.
ρ.
95% ci.
s: ’cause you took away 10 and 70 minus 10 is 60.t: why did we take away 10?.
high.
s: there’s not enough seeds.
t: there’s not enough seeds.
how do you knowright away that 128 or 132 or whateverit was you got doesn’t make sense?.
s: teacher l, can you change your dimensionslike 3-d and stuff for your bars?
t: you can do 2-d or 3-d, yes.
i already said that..s: the higher the number, the smaller it is.
t: you got it.
that’s a good thought..s: an obtuse angle is more than 90 degrees.
t: why don’t we put our pencils down and just dosome brainstorming, and then we’ll go backthrough it?.
s: because the base of it is a hexagon.
t: student k?.
high.
mid.
mid.
low.
low.
table 1: examples from our annotated data, showingthe majority label for each example..4.1 methods.
we use several algorithms to better understand ifword- or utterance-level similarity is a better mea-sure of uptake.
for each token-based algorithm,we experiment with several different choices forpre-processing as a way to get the best possiblebaselines to compare to.
we include symbols forthe set of choices yielding best performance : re-moving punctuation ♠, removing stopwords usingnltk (bird, 2006) ⊕, and stemming via nltk’ssnowballstemmer †..string- and token-overlap..lcs: longest common subsequence..%-in-t: fraction of tokens from s that are alsoin t (miller and beebe-center, 1956).
[♠ ⊕ †]%-in-s: fraction of tokens from t that are alsoin s. [♠⊕]jaccard: jaccard similarity (niwattanakul et al.,2013).
[♠⊕]bleu: bleu score (papineni et al., 2002) for upto 4-grams.
we use s as the reference and t asthe hypothesis.
[♠ ⊕ †].
embedding-based similarity.
forthe wordvector-based metrics, we use 300-dimensionalglove vectors (pennington et al., 2014) pretrainedon 6b tokens from wikipedia 2014 and the giga-word 5 corpus (parker et al., 2011)..lcs%-in-t%-in-sjaccard.
bleu.
.283.523***.440.450.510.
[.240, .329][.488, .559][.399, .480][.413, .487][.472, .543].
[.483, .550][.378, .465][.350, .432][.408, .486].
glove [aligned]glove [utt]sentence-bertuniversal sentence encoder.
.518.424.390.448.table 2: results from our baseline measures.
asterisksindicate that %-in-t signiﬁcantly outperforms glove[aligned] (p < 0.001), measured by a paired boot-strap test, comparing the difference between the ρ ob-tained by %-in-t and the one by glove [aligned]across 1000 iterations, then using a t-test..glove [aligned]: average pairwise cosinesimilarity of word embeddings between tokensfrom s and its most similar token in t .
[♠].
glove [utt]: cosine similarity of utterancevectors representing s and t .
utterance vectorsare obtained by averaging word vectors from sand from t .
[♠⊕].
sentence-bert: cosine similarity of utterancevectors representing s and t , obtained using apre-trained sentence-bert model for english(reimers and gurevych, 2019).8.universal sentence encoder: innerproduct of utterance vectors representing s and t ,obtained using a pre-trained universal sentenceencoder for english (cer et al., 2018)..4.2 results.
we compute correlations between model scoresand human labels via spearman rank order correla-tion ρ. we perform bootstrap sampling (for 1000iterations) to compute 95% conﬁdence intervals..the results are shown in table 2. overall,we ﬁnd that token-based measures outperformutterance-based measures, with %-in-t (ρ = .523),glove [aligned] (ρ = .518) (a soft word over-lap measure) and bleu (ρ = .510) performingthe best.
even embedding-based algorithms thatare computed at the utterance-level do not outper-form %-in-t, a simple word overlap baseline.
itis noteworthy that all measures have a signiﬁcantcorrelation with human judgments..8https://github.com/ukplab/.
sentence-transformers.
1641the surprisingly strong performance of %-in-t, glove [aligned] and bleu provide furtherevidence that the extent to which t repeats wordsfrom s is important for uptake (tannen, 1987), es-pecially in the context of teaching.
the fact thatremoving stopwords helps these measures suggeststhat the repetition of function words is less impor-tant for uptake; an interesting contrast to linguisticstyle coordination in which function words play akey role (danescu-niculescu-mizil and lee, 2011).
moreover, the amount of words t adds in additionto words from s also seems relatively irrelevantbased on the lower performance of the measuresthat penalize t containing words that are not in s— examples in table 1 also support this result..5 uptake as dependence.
now we introduce our main uptake measure, usedto capture a broader range of uptake phenomenabeyond repetition including, e.g., acknowledgmentand question answering (section 2).
we formalizeuptake as dependence of t on s, captured by thejensen-shannon divergence, which quantiﬁes theextent to which we can tell whether t is a responseto s or is it a random response (t).
if we cannot′tell the difference between t and t, we argue thatthere can be no uptake, as t fails all three functionsof coherence, grounding and collaboration..′.
we can formally deﬁne the dependence for asingle teacher-student utterance pair (s, t) in termsof a pointwise variant of jsd (pjsd) as.
pjsd(t, s) ∶= − 1.
+ e log(1 − p(z =1∣m =t.
2 ( log p(z =1∣m =t, s), s))) + log(2).
′.
(1).
′.
where (s, t ) is a teacher-student utterance pair,tis a randomly sampled teacher utterance that isindependent of s, and m ∶= zt + (1 − z)tis amixture of the two with a binary indicator variablez ∼ bern(p=0.5)..′.
′.
this pointwise measure relates to the stan-dard jsd for t ∣s =s and tby takingthe teacher utterance viaexpectations overe[pjsd(t, s)∣s =s]=jsd(t ∣s =s∥t).
weconsider the pointwise variant for the rest of thesection, as we are interested in a measure of depen-dence between a speciﬁc (t, s) rather than one thatis averaged over multiple teacher utterances..′.
5.1 next utterance classiﬁcation.
the deﬁnition of pjsd naturally suggests an esti-mator based on the next utterance classiﬁcationtask — a task previously used in neighboring nlpareas like dialogue generation and discourse coher-ence.
we ﬁne-tune a pre-trained bert-base model(devlin et al., 2019) on a dataset of (s, t ) pairsto predict if a speciﬁc (s, t) is a true pair or not(i.e., whether t came from t or t).
the objectivefunction is cross-entropy loss, computed over theoutput of the ﬁnal classiﬁcation layer that takes inthe last hidden state of t. let z be a binary indi-cator variable representing the model’s prediction.
then, the cross entropy loss for identifying z is.
′.
l(t, s) = − log fθ(t, s) − e log(1 − fθ(t., s))(2)which can be used directly as an estimator for thelog-probability terms in equation 1,.
′.
̂pjsd(t, s) ∶=.
l(t, s) + log 2..(3).
12.standard variational arguments (nowozin et al.,2016) show that any classiﬁer fθ forms a lowerbound on the jsd,.
jsd(t ∣s = s∥t.
′.)
≥ e[̂pjsd(t, s)∣s = s]..thus, our overall procedure is to ﬁt fθ(t, s) by max-imizing e[̂pjsd(t, s)] over our dataset and thenuse fθ(t, s) (a monotone function of ̂pjsd(t, s))as our pointwise measure of dependence..training data.
we use (s, t ) pairs from threesources to form our training data: the ncte dataset(kane et al., 2015) (section 3), switchboard (god-frey and holliman, 1997) and a one-on-one onlinetutoring dataset (section 6) — we use a combina-tion of datasets instead of one dataset in order tosupport the generalizability of the model.
filter-ing out examples with s < 5 tokens or [inaudible]markers (section 3), our resulting dataset consistsof 259k (s, t ) pairs.
for each (s, t) pair, we ran-′domly select 3 negative (s, t) pairs from the samesource dataset, yielding 777k examples.9.
parameter settings.
we ﬁne-tune our model for1 epoch to avoid overﬁtting with a batch size of32 × 2 gradient accumulation steps, max length of.
9we do not split the data into training and validation sets,as we found that using predictions on the training data vs thoseon the test data as our uptake measure yield similar results, sowe opted for maximizing training data size..1642model.
ρ.
95% ci.
%-in-tpjsd.
.523.540***.
[.488, .559][.505, .574].
table 3: results from the pjsd model.
the asterisks,calculated as in table 2, indicate that the difference be-tween the two models’ performance is signiﬁcant..120 tokens for s and t each (the rest is truncated),learning rate of 6.24e-5 with linear decay and theadamw optimizer (loshchilov and hutter, 2017).
training took about 13hrs on a single titanx gpu..5.2 results & analysis.
table 3 shows that the pjsd model (ρ = .540) sig-niﬁcantly outperforms %-in-t. our rough estimateon the upper bound of rater agreement (ρ = .539,obtained from a pilot annotation where all 13 ratersrated 70 examples) indicate that our best models’scores in a similar range as human agreement.10.
table 4 includes illustrative examples for modelpredictions.
our qualitative comparison of pjsdand %-in-t indicates that (1) the capability of pjsdto differentiate between more and less importantwords in terms of uptake (examples 1 and 6) ac-counts for many cases where pjsd is more accuratethan %-in-t, (2) neither model is able to capturerare and semantically deep forms of uptake (exam-ple 3), (3) pjsd generally gives higher scores than%-in-t to coherent responses with limited wordoverlap (example 5)..now we turn to our motivating goals for propos-ing pjsd and quantitatively analyze its ability tocapture more sophisticated forms for uptake..comparison of linguistic phenomena.
to un-derstand if there is a pattern explaining pjsd’s bet-ter performance, we quantify the occurence of dif-ferent linguistic phenomena for examples wherepjsd outperforms %-in-t. concretely, we com-pute the residuals for each model, regressing thehuman labels on their predictions.
then, we takethose examples where the difference between thetwo models’ residuals is 1.5 standard deviationsabove the mean difference between their residu-als.
we label teacher utterances in these examples.
10human agreement and model scores are not directly com-parable.
the human agreement values (as reported here for 13raters and in section 3 for 3 raters) are averaged leave-out es-timates across raters (skewed downward).
the models’ scoresrepresent correlations with an averaged human score, whichsmooths over the interrater variance of 3 raters..figure 2: the difference (δ) between the scores from%-in-t and pjsd for ﬁve uptake phenomena labeledin switchboard.
asterisks indicate signiﬁcance (***:p < 0.001), estimated via a median test..for four linguistic phenomena associated with up-take and good teaching (elaboration prompt, re-formulation, collaborative completion, and answerto question), allowing multiple labels (e.g.
elab-oration prompt and completion often co-occur).11as table 5 shows, elaboration prompts, which areexemplars of high uptake in teaching (nystrandet al., 1997) are signiﬁcantly more likely to occurin this set — suggesting that there is a qualitativedifference between what these models capture thatis relevant for teaching.
we do not ﬁnd a signiﬁ-cant difference in the occurrence of reformulations,collaborative completions and answers between thetwo sets, possibly due to the small sample size(n=67).
to see whether these differences are sig-niﬁcant on a larger dataset, we now turn to theswitchboard dialogue corpus..switchboard dialog acts.
we take advantage ofdialog act annotations on switchboard (jurafskyet al., 1997), to compare uptake phenomena cap-tured by %-in-t and pjsd at a large scale.
we iden-tify ﬁve uptake phenomena labeled in switchboardand map them to swbd-damsl tags: acknowl-edgment, answer, collaborative completion, refor-mulation and repetition (see details in appendix c).
we estimate scores for %-in-t and pjsd forall utterance pairs (s, t ) in switchboard, ﬁlteringout ones where s < 5 tokens.
we apply our pjsdmodel from section 5.1, which was partially ﬁne-tuned on switchboard.
since both measures are.
11we label examples with above average uptake scores, asthere is no trivial interpretation for uptake strategies labeledon low-uptake examples..1643-.60.6answer***reformulation***collaborativecompletion***acknowledgment***repetition***jsdis higher%-in-tis higherexample.
s: i knew that eight was a composite number and -t: why?
how?
how did you know it was composite?.
s: do you have to know division to do fractions?
t: i would think - division, sometimes, yes, you do need to know division to do sometypes of fractions.
when we get to putting your fraction in simplest forms, yes, youneed to know division and multiplication facts.
you know something else you can ﬁndthat comes in fractions?.
s: you put a one instead of a two.
t: yes i did.
thank you.
you always correct me.
that’s too high.
let’s bring it down.
how many times do you think, student d?.
s: ﬁve, six, seven, eight, you take eight off.
t: no, no, no equal pieces.
right?
okay so how many equal pieces do you need to make?.
s: i can prove it that it’s three hundred.
t: and you think it’s -?.
s: oh, i see it.
i see it.
t: okay, now this is also another equivalent fraction.
after you color, see if you see theequivalent fraction.
let’s see what you’ve got, student y..1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.label(quartile).
model predictions%-in-tpjsd.
top.
mid.
top.
top.
top.
bottom.
bottom.
bottom.
bottom.
bottom.
mid.
bottom.
mid.
top.
table 4: example model predictions, comparing the pjsd model to %-in-t. all labels are converted to percentiles:top (75th), mid (25-75th) and bottom (25th).
green indicates correct predictions, red indicates predictions fromthe opposite quartile and grey indicates mid-range predictions..label.
examples.
elaborationprompt(4.25*).
s: so it means that the whole equationis only the same.
t: what does it mean?
i still don’tunderstand what is it?.
reformulation(2.6).
s: multiplication is like, say, for instance,nine times twenty.
you just take - nine justnine times and add it up.
t: okay, so repeated addition..answer(2.67).
s: do we look at the d or the m ﬁrst?
t: the m. what’s this called, that i’m writing?.
collaborativecompletion (0).
s: we had to add twenty-four plus twenty-four.
t: because there are how many triangles?.
table 5: examples for linguistic phenomena, manuallylabeled in the dataset where pjsd and %-in-t makesigniﬁcantly different predictions.
parenthetical num-bers after the labels represent the odds ratio of exam-ples with this label occurring in the set where pjsd per-forms better over the set where %-in-t performs better(*: p < 0.05, computed via a fisher exact test)..bounded, we quantile-transform the distribution ofeach measure to have a uniform distribution.
foreach uptake phenomenon, we compute the differ-ence (δ) between the median score from pjsd andthe median score from %-in-t for all (s, t ) pairswhere t is labeled for that phenomenon..the results (figure 2) show that pjsd predictssigniﬁcantly higher scores than %-in-t for all phe-nomena, especially for answers, reformulations,.
collaborative completions and acknowledgments.
for repetition, δ is quite small, but still signiﬁcantdue to the large sample size.
these ﬁndings corrob-orate our hypothesis that %-in-t and pjsd capturerepetition similarly, but pjsd is able to better cap-ture other uptake phenomena..6 downstream application.
to test the generalizability of our uptake measuresand their link to instruction quality, we correlatepjsd and %-in-t with educational outcomes onthree different datasets of student-teacher interac-tions (table 6)..ncte dataset.
we use all transcripts from thencte dataset (kane et al., 2015) (section 3)with associated classroom observation scores basedon the mqi coding instrument (teaching project,2011).
we select two items from mqi relevant touptake as outcomes: (1) use of student math contri-butions and (2) overall quality of math instruction.
since these items are coded at a 7-minute segment-level, we take the average ratings across raters andsegments for each transcript..tutoring dataset.
we use data from an educa-tional technology company (same as in chen et al.,2019), which provides on-demand text-based tu-toring for math and science.
with a mobile appli-cation, a student can take a picture of a problem.
1644dataset.
size.
genre.
topic.
class size.
outcome.
pjsd (β) %-in-t (β).
ncte.
1.6k conv.
55k (s, t ).
in-personspoken.
math.
whole class.
use of student contributionsmath instruction quality.
.101***.091***.
.113***.121***.
simteacher.
tutoring.
338 conv.
2.7k (s, t ).
4.6k conv.
85k (s, t ).
virtualspoken.
virtualwritten.
literature.
small group.
quality of feedback.
.127*.
.123*.
math,science.
one-on-one.
student satisfactionexternal reviewer rating.
.069***.063***.
.008.021.table 6: the correlation of uptake scores from pjsd and %-in-t and outcomes for three educational datasets.
theβ values represent z-scored coefﬁcients, each obtained from an ordinary least squares regression, controlling forthe number of (s, t ) pairs with uptake scores in each conversation (*: p < 0.05, **: p < 0.01, ***: p < 0.001)..or write it down, and is then connected to a pro-fessional tutor who guides the student to solve theproblem.
similarly to chen et al.
(2019), we ﬁlterout short sessions where the tutors are unlikely todeliver meaningful tutoring.
speciﬁcally, we createa list of (s, t ) pairs for all sessions, keeping pairswhere s ≥ 5 tokens, and then remove sessions withfewer than ten (s, t ) pairs.
this results in 4604sessions, representing 108 tutors and 1821 students.
each session is associated with two outcome mea-sures: (1) student satisfaction scores (1-5 scale)and (2) a rating by the tutor manager based on anevaluation rubric (0-1 scale)..simteacher dataset.
we use a dataset collectedby cohen et al.
(2020), via a mixed reality sim-ulation platform in which novice teachers get topractice key classroom skills in a virtual classroominterface populated by student avatars.
the avatarsare controlled remotely by a trained actor; hencethe term “mixed” reality.
all pre-service teach-ers from a large public university complete a ﬁve-minute simulation session at multiple timepoints intheir teacher preparation program, and are coachedon how to better elicit students’ thinking about atext.
we use data from fall 2019, with 338 sessionsrepresenting 117 teachers.
since all sessions arebased on the same scenario (discussed text, lead-ing questions, avatar scripts), this dataset uniquelyallows us to answer the question: controlling forstudent avatar scripts, does a greater teacher uptakelead to better outcomes?
for the outcome variable,we use their holistic “quality of feedback” measure(1-10 scale), annotated at the transcript-level by theoriginal research team.12.
12this overall quality scale accounts for the extent to whichteachers actively work to support student avatars’ develop-ment of text-based responses, highlighting the importance ofprobing student responses (e.g.
“where in the text did you seethat?”; “what made you think this about the character?”)..6.1 results & analysis.
as outcomes are linked to conversations, we ﬁrstmean-aggregate uptake scores to the conversation-level.
we then compute the correlation of up-take scores and outcomes using an ordinary leastsquares regression, controlling for the number of(s, t ) pairs in each conversation..the results (table 6) indicate that pjsd cor-relates with all of the outcome measures signiﬁ-cantly.
%-in-t also shows signiﬁcant correlationsfor ncte and for simteacher, but not for the tu-toring dataset.
we provide more details below..for ncte and simteacher, we ﬁnd that twomeasures show similar positive correlations withoutcomes.
these results provide further insight intoour earlier ﬁndings from section 5.2. they suggestthat the teacher’s repetition of student words, alsoknown as “revoicing” in math education (formanet al., 1997; o’connor and michaels, 1993), maybe an especially important mediator of instructionquality in classroom contexts and other aspects ofuptake are relatively less important.
the signiﬁcantcorrelation of pjsd with the outcome in case ofsimteacher is especially noteworthy because pjsdwas not ﬁne-tuned on this dataset (section 5.1);this provides evidence for the adaptability of a pre-trained model to other (similar) datasets..the gap between the two measures in case ofthe tutoring dataset is an interesting ﬁnding, possi-bly explained by the conversational setting: repeti-tion may be an effective uptake strategy in multi-participant & spoken settings, ensuring that every-one has heard what the student said and is on thesame page; whereas, in a written 1:1 teaching set-ting, repetition may not be necessary or effectiveas both participants are likely to assume that thattheir interlocutor has read their words.
our qualita-tive analysis suggests pjsd might be outperform-ing %-in-t because it is better able to pick up.
1645high student feedback (%-in-t < pjsd).
low student feedback (pjsd < %-in-t).
s: if they’re the same length i thinkt: that’s right!
all we need is the length, and that’s enough.
s: the energy from the one pendulum moving will transfer thesame frequency to the second pendulum once they touch?
t: they don’t even need to touch!
we can swing them so theyswing side by side, like two swings on a swingset.
s: pendulum one will start to absorb energy from pendulum two?
t: exactly!
and eventually, the whole process will reverse untilpendulum one is moving full speed again..s: when you are saying mixture are you talking about nitrogen?
t: thanks for your question.
s: no i don’t think sot: great answer!
s: i don’t know , just made an educated guesst: great try!
s: i want further explanation about volume andnumber moles when using nitrogent: sure.
no worries!.
table 7: examples from the tutoring dataset — for both examples, the predictions by pjsd are more accurate thanthe ones by %-in-t that predicts too low and too high values, respectively, when compared to student ratings..on cues related to teacher responsiveness (we in-clude two examples in table 7).
to test this, wedetect coarse-grained estimates of teacher uptake:teacher question marks (estimate of follow-up ques-tion) and teacher exclamation marks (estimate ofapproval).
we then follow the same procedure as insection 5.2 and ﬁnd that dialogs where pjsd outper-forms %-in-t, in terms of predicting student rat-ings, have a higher ratio of exchanges with teacherquestions (p < 0.05, obtained from two-samplet-test) and teacher exclamation marks (p < 0.01).
to put these effect sizes from table 6 (where sig-niﬁcant) in the context of education interventionsthat are designed to increase student outcomes (typ-ically test scores), the coefﬁcients we report hereare considered average for an effective educationalintervention (kraft, 2020).
further, existing guide-lines for educational interventions would classifyuptake as a promising potential intervention, as itis highly scalable and easily quantiﬁed..7 related work.
prior computational work on classroom discoursehas employed supervised, feature-based classiﬁersto detect teachers’ discourse moves relevant to stu-dent learning, such as authentic questions, elabo-rated feedback and uptake, treating these moves asbinary variables (samei et al., 2014; donnelly et al.,2017; kelly et al., 2018; stone et al., 2019; jensenet al., 2020).
our labeled dataset, unsupervisedapproach (involving a state-of-the art pre-trainedmodel), and careful analysis across domains arenovel contributions that will enable a ﬁne-grainedand domain-adaptable measure of uptake that cansupport researchers and teachers..our work aligns closely with research on thecomputational study of conversations.
for example,measures have been developed to study construc-tiveness (niculae and danescu-niculescu-mizil,.
2016), politeness (danescu-niculescu-mizil et al.,2013) and persuasion (tan et al., 2016) in conversa-tions.
perhaps most similar to our work, zhang anddanescu-niculescu-mizil (2020) develop an unsu-pervised method to identify therapists’ backward-and forward-looking utterances, with which theyguide their conversations..we also draw on work measuring discourse co-herence via embedding cosines (xu et al., 2018;ko et al., 2019), or via utterance classiﬁcation (xuet al., 2019; iter et al., 2020), the latter of whichis used also for building and evaluating dialog sys-tems (lowe et al., 2016; wolf et al., 2019).
ourwork extends these two families of methods to hu-man conversation and highlights the different lin-guistic phenomena they capture.
finally, our workshows the key role of coherence in the sociallyimportant task of studying uptake..8 conclusion.
we propose a framework for measuring uptake, acore conversational phenomenon with particularlyhigh relevance in teaching contexts.
we release anannotated dataset and develop and compare unsu-pervised measures of uptake, demonstrating signif-icant correlation with educational outcomes acrossthree datasets.
this lays the groundwork (1) forscaling up teachers’ professional development onuptake thereby enabling improvements to educa-tion, (2) for conducting analyses on uptake acrossdomains and languages where labeled data doesnot exist and (3) for studying the effect of uptakeon a wider range of socially relevant outcomes..acknowledgments.
we thank anonymous reviewers, amelia hardy,aswhin paranjape, yiwei luo for helpful feedback.
we are grateful for the support of the melvin andjoan lane stanford graduate fellowship (to d.d.)..
16469 ethical considerations.
our objective in building a dataset and a frame-work for measuring uptake is (1) to aid researchersstudying conversations and teaching and (2) to (ulti-mately) support the professional development of ed-ucators by providing them with a scalable measureof a phenomenon that supports student learning.
our second objective is especially important, sinceexisting forms of professional development aimedat improving uptake are highly resource intensive(involving classroom observations and manual eval-uation).
this costliness has meant that teachersworking in under-resourced school systems havethus far had limited access to quality professionaldevelopment in this area..the dataset we release is sampled from tran-scripts collected by the national center for teachereffectiveness (ncte) (kane et al., 2015) (har-vard irb #17768).
these transcripts represent datafrom 317 teachers across 4 school districts in newengland that serve largely low-income, historicallymarginalized students.
the data was collected aspart of a carefully designed study on teacher ef-fectiveness, spanning three years between 2010and 2013 and it was de-identiﬁed by the originalresearch team, meaning that in the transcripts, stu-dent names are replaced with “student” and teachernames are replaced with “teacher”.
both parentsand teachers gave consent for the de-identiﬁeddata to be retained and used in future research.
the collection process and representativeness ofthe data are all described in great detail in (kaneet al., 2015).
given that the dataset was collected adecade ago, there may be limitations to its use andongoing relevance.
that said, research in educationreform has long attested to the fact that teachingpractices have remained relatively constant overthe past century (cuban, 1993; cohen and mehta,2017) and that there are strong socio-cultural pres-sures that maintain this (cohen, 1988)..the data was annotated by 13 raters, whose de-mographics are largely representative of teacherdemographics in the us13.
all raters have do-main expertise, in that they are former or cur-rent math teachers and former or current ratersfor the mathematical quality instruction (teach-ing project, 2011).
the raters were trained for atleast an hour each on the coding instrument andspent 8 hours on average on the annotation (over.
13https://nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display..asp?id=28.
the course of several weeks) and were compensated$16.5 / hr..in section 6, we apply our data to to two educa-tional datasets besides ncte.
we do not releaseeither of these datasets.
the simteacher datasetwas collected by cohen et al.
(2020) (university ofvirginia irb #2918), for research and program im-provement purposes.
the participants in the studyare mostly white (82%), female (90%), and middleclass (71%), mirroring the broader teaching profes-sion.
as for the tutoring dataset, the data belongsto a private company; the students and tutors havegiven consent for their data to be used for research,with the goal of improving the company’s services.
the company works with a large number of tutorsand students; we use data that represents 108 tutorsand 1821 students.
70% of tutors in the data aremale, complementing the other datasets where themajority of teachers are female.
the company doesnot share other demographic information about tu-tors and students..similarly to other data-driven approaches, it isimportant to think carefully about the source ofthe training data when considering downstream usecases of our measure.
our unsupervised approachhelps address this issue as it allows for training themodel on data that is representative of the popula-tion that it is meant to serve..references.
m. m. bakhtin.
1981. the dialogic imagination: four.
essays.
university of texas press..steven bird.
2006. nltk: the natural languagetoolkit.
in proceedings of the coling/acl 2006interactive presentation sessions, pages 69–72, syd-ney, australia.
association for computational lin-guistics..jere e brophy.
1984. teacher behavior and studentachievement.
73. institute for research on teaching,michigan state university..daniel cer, yinfei yang, sheng-yi kong, nan hua,nicole limtiaco, rhomni st john, noah constant,mario guajardo-cespedes, steve yuan, chris tar,et al.
2018. universal sentence encoder for english.
in proceedings of the 2018 conference on empiricalmethods in natural language processing: systemdemonstrations, pages 169–174..guanliang chen, rafael ferreira, david lang, and dra-gan gasevic.
2019. predictors of student satisfac-tion: a large-scale study of human-human onlinetutorial dialogues.
international educational datamining society..1647herbert h clark and edward f schaefer.
1989. con-tributing to discourse.
cognitive science, 13(2):259–294..david k cohen.
1988. teaching practice: plus c¸achange.
national center for research on teachereducation east lansing, mi..david k cohen and jal d mehta.
2017. why reformsometimes succeeds: understanding the conditionsthat produce reforms that last.
american educa-tional research journal, 54(4):644–690..julie cohen and dan goldhaber.
2016..buildinga more complete understanding of teacher evalua-tion using classroom observations.
educational re-searcher, 45(6):378–387..julie cohen, vivian wong, anandita krishnamachari,and rebekah berlin.
2020. teacher coaching ina simulated environment.
educational evaluationand policy analysis, 42(2):208–231..james collins.
1982. discourse style, classroom inter-action and differential treatment.
journal of read-ing behavior, 14(4):429–437..larry cuban.
1993. how teachers taught: constancyand change in american classrooms, 1890-1990.teachers college press..cristian danescu-niculescu-mizil and lillian lee.
2011. chameleons in imagined conversations: anew approach to understanding coordination of lin-guistic style in dialogs.
acl hlt 2011, page 76..cristian danescu-niculescu-mizil, moritz sudhof,dan jurafsky, jure leskovec, and christopher potts.
2013. a computational approach to politeness within 51st annual meet-application to social factors.
ing of the association for computational linguistics,pages 250–259.
acl..rosario delgado and xavier-andoni tibau.
2019.why cohen’s kappa should be avoided as per-plos one,formance measure in classiﬁcation.
14(9):e0222916..jacob devlin, ming-wei chang, kenton lee, andkristina toutanova.
2019. bert: pre-training ofdeep bidirectional transformers for language under-standing.
in proceedings of the 2019 conference ofthe north american chapter of the association forcomputational linguistics: human language tech-nologies, volume 1 (long and short papers), pages4171–4186..patrick j donnelly, nathaniel blanchard, andrew molney, sean kelly, martin nystrand, and sidney kd’mello.
2017. words matter: automatic detectionof teacher questions in live classroom discourse us-ing linguistics, acoustics, and context.
in proceed-ings of the seventh international learning analytics& knowledge conference, pages 218–227..ellice a forman, dawn e mccormick, and richarddonato.
1997. learning what counts as a math-ematical explanation.
linguistics and education,9(4):313–339..john j godfrey and edward holliman.
1997.linguistic data con-.
switchboard-1 release 2.sortium, philadelphia, 926:927..barbara j grosz et al.
1977. the representation anduse of focus in a system for understanding dialogs.
in ijcai, volume 67, page 76. citeseer..michael alexander kirkwood halliday and ruqaiyahasan.
1976. cohesion in english.
london: long-mans..jerry r hobbs.
1979. coherence and coreference..cognitive science, 3(1):67–90..dan iter, kelvin guu, larry lansing, and dan jurafsky.
2020. pretraining with contrastive sentence objec-tives improves discourse performance of languagein proceedings of the 58th annual meet-models.
ing of the association for computational linguistics,pages 4859–4870..emily jensen, meghan dale, patrick j donnelly, cath-lyn stone, sean kelly, amanda godley, and sid-ney k d’mello.
2020. toward automated feedbackon teacher discourse to enhance teacher learning.
inproceedings of the 2020 chi conference on humanfactors in computing systems, pages 1–13..daniel jurafsky, elizabeth shriberg, and debra bi-asca.
1997. switchboard swbd-damsl labelingproject coder’s manual, draft 13. technical report97-02, university of colorado institute of cognitivescience..t kane, h hill, and d staiger.
2015. national centerfor teacher effectiveness main study.
icpsr36095-v2..sean kelly, robert bringe, esteban aucejo, andjane cooley fruehwirth.
2020. using global obser-vation protocols to inform research on teaching ef-fectiveness and school improvement: strengths andemerging limitations.
education policy analysisarchives, 28:62..sean kelly, andrew m olney, patrick donnelly, martinnystrand, and sidney k d’mello.
2018. automati-cally measuring question authenticity in real-worldclassrooms.
educational researcher, 47(7):451–464..wei-jen ko, greg durrett, and junyi jessy li.
2019.linguistically-informed speciﬁcity and semanticplausibility for dialogue generation.
in proceedingsof naacl 2019, pages 3456–3466..matthew a kraft.
2020..interpreting effect sizes ofeducation interventions.
educational researcher,49(4):241–253..1648yinhan liu, myle ott, naman goyal, jingfei du, man-dar joshi, danqi chen, omer levy, mike lewis,luke zettlemoyer, and veselin stoyanov.
2019.roberta: a robustly optimized bert pretrainingapproach.
arxiv preprint arxiv:1907.11692..jeffrey pennington, richard socher, and christopher dmanning.
2014. glove: global vectors for word rep-resentation.
in proceedings of the 2014 conferenceon empirical methods in natural language process-ing (emnlp), pages 1532–1543..ilya loshchilov and frank hutter.
2017. decou-pled weight decay regularization.
arxiv preprintarxiv:1711.05101..robert c pianta, karen m la paro, and bridget khamre.
2008. classroom assessment scoring sys-tem: manual k-3.
paul h brookes publishing..ryan lowe, iulian vlad serban, michael noseworthy,laurent charlin, and joelle pineau.
2016. on theevaluation of dialogue systems with next utterancein proceedings of the 17th annualclassiﬁcation.
meeting of the special interest group on discourseand dialogue, pages 264–269..george a. miller and j. g. beebe-center.
1956. somepsychological methods for evaluating the quality oftranslations.
mechanical translation, 3:73–80..vlad niculae and cristian danescu-niculescu-mizil.
2016. conversational markers of constructive dis-in proceedings of naacl-hlt, pagescussions.
568–578..jatsada.
suphakit niwattanakul,.
singthongchai,ekkachai naenudorn, and supachanun wanapu.
2013. using of jaccard coefﬁcient for keywordssimilarity.
in proceedings of the international mul-ticonference of engineers and computer scientists,volume 1..f-gan:.
sebastian nowozin, botond cseke,.
and ryotatraining generative neuraltomioka.
2016.samplers using variational divergence minimization.
in proceedings of the 30th international conferenceon neural information processing systems, pages271–279..martin nystrand, adam gamoran, robert kachur, andcatherine prendergast.
1997. opening dialogue.
new york: teachers college press..martin nystrand, lawrence l wu, adam gamoran,susie zeiser, and daniel a long.
2003. questions intime: investigating the structure and dynamics of un-folding classroom discourse.
discourse processes,35(2):135–198..mary c o’connor and sarah michaels.
1993. align-ing academic task and participation status throughrevoicing: analysis of a classroom discourseanthropology & education quarterly,strategy.
24(4):318–335..kishore papineni, salim roukos, todd ward, and wei-jing zhu.
2002. bleu: a method for automatic eval-uation of machine translation.
in proceedings of the40th annual meeting of the association for compu-tational linguistics, pages 311–318..nils reimers and iryna gurevych.
2019. sentence-bert: sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks.
in proceedings of the 2019 conference onempirical methods in natural language processingand the 9th international joint conference on natu-ral language processing (emnlp-ijcnlp), pages3973–3983..borhan samei, andrew m olney, sean kelly, martinnystrand, sidney d’mello, nathan blanchard, xi-aoyi sun, marcy glaus, and art graesser.
2014. do-main independent assessment of dialogic propertiesof classroom discourse.
grantee submission..cathlyn stone, patrick j donnelly, meghan dale, sarahcapello, sean kelly, amanda godley, and sidney kd’mello.
2019. utterance-level modeling of indica-tors of engaging classroom discourse.
internationaleducational data mining society..chenhao tan, vlad niculae, cristian danescu-niculescu-mizil, and lillian lee.
2016. winningarguments:interaction dynamics and persuasionstrategies in good-faith online discussions.
in pro-ceedings of the 25th international conference onworld wide web, pages 613–624..deborah tannen.
1987. repetition in conversation: to-ward a poetics of talk.
language, pages 574–605..learning mathematics for teaching project.
2011.measuring the mathematical quality of instruction.
journal of mathematics teacher education, 14:25–47..gordon wells.
1999. dialogic inquiry: towardsa socio-cultural practice and theory of education.
cambridge university press..thomas wolf, victor sanh, julien chaumond, andclement delangue.
2019. transfertransfo: a trans-fer learning approach for neural network based con-versational agents.
corr, abs/1901.08149..peng xu, hamidreza saghir, jin sung kang, tenglong, avishek joey bose, yanshuai cao, and jackiechi kit cheung.
2019. a cross-domain transfer-able neural coherence model.
in proceedings of the57th annual meeting of the association for compu-tational linguistics, pages 678–687..robert parker, david graff, junbo kong, ke chen,and kazuaki maeda.
2011. english gigaword ﬁfthedition ldc2011t07, 2011. url https://catalog.
ldc.
upenn.
edu/ldc2011t07.[online]..
xinnuo xu, ondˇrej duˇsek, ioannis konstas, and ver-ena rieser.
2018. better conversations by modeling,ﬁltering, and optimizing for coherence and diversity.
in proceedings of emnlp 2018, pages 3981–3991..1649justine zhang and cristian danescu-niculescu-mizil.
2020. balancing objectives in counseling conversa-tions: advancing forwards or looking backwards.
inproceedings of the 58th annual meeting of the asso-ciation for computational linguistics, pages 5276–5289..1650a annotation framework.
figure 3 shows a screenshot of our annotation in-terface.
in the annotation framework, we used theterm “active listening” to refer to uptake, since wefound that active listening is more interpretableto raters, while uptake is too technical.
however,the difference in terminology should not affect theannotations, since the two constructs are synony-mous and we designed the annotation instructionsentirely based on the linguistics and education lit-erature on uptake.
for example, the title of the in-struction manual is “annotating teachers’ uptakeof student ideas”, and we deﬁne different levels ofuptake with phrasings such as “the teacher providesevidence for following what the student is sayingor trying to say”, linking our deﬁnition to clarkand schaefer (1989)’s theory on grounding.
weinclude annotation instructions with the dataset..figure 3: screenshot of the annotation interface..1651model.
pjsd.
roberta-basebert-base.
ρ.
.540.
.561.618.table 8: supervised model results..b supervised model results.
we conducted experiments to compare the perfor-mance of our unsupervised models to that of su-pervised models.
we randomly split the annotateddata into training (80%) and test (20%) sets, usingthe z-scored rater judgments as labels (section 3).
we trained bert-base (devlin et al., 2019) androberta-base (liu et al., 2019) on this data for10 epochs with early stopping, and a batch sizeof 8 × 2 gradient accumulation steps — all otherparameters are defaults set by huggingface14..the results are shown in table 8. the supervisedmodels outperform our unsupervised models byless than .08, indicating the competitiveness of ourunsupervised methods.
interestingly, we also ﬁndthat bert outperforms roberta, a gap that per-sisted despite tuning the number of training epochs.
since our paper’s focus is unsupervised methodsthat enable scalability and domain-generalizability,we leave more extensive parameter search and su-pervised model comparison for future work..c mapping the swbd-damsl tagset.
to uptake phenomena.
we map tags from swbd-damsl (jurafsky et al.,1997) to ﬁve salient uptake phenomena: acknowl-edgment, answer, reformulation, collaborative com-pletion and repetition.
table 9 summarizes ourmapping.
since acknowledgment is highly fre-quent and it can co-occur with several other dialogacts, we consider those examples to be acknowl-edgments that are labeled exclusively for this phe-nomenon (using either the tag b, bh or bk)..14https://huggingface.co/.
1652uptake phenomenon.
damsl tags.
% of examples.
acknowledgment.
b, bh, bk.
answer.
reformulation.
collaborative completion.
repetition.
bf.
ˆ2.
ˆm.
tags containing “n”.
81%.
13%.
2%.
2%.
2%.
table 9: mapping between uptake phenomena and tags from swbd-damsl (jurafsky et al., 1997)..1653